B IG 	B EN	STRUCK 	four	times.
Although	the	Lord	Chancellor	was	exhausted,	and	drained	from	what	had	taken	place	that	night,	enough
adrenalin	was	still	pumping	through	his	body	to	ensure	that	he	was	quite	unable	to	sleep.	He	had	assured
their	lordships	that	he	would	deliver	a	ruling	in	the	case	of	Barrington	versus	Clifton	as	to	which	of	the
young	men	should	inherit	the	ancient	title	and	the	family’s	vast	estates.
Once	again	he	considered	the	facts,	because	he	believed	that	the	facts,	and	only	the	facts,	should
determine	his	final	judgment.
When	he’d	begun	his	pupillage	some	forty	years	before,	his	pupilmaster	had	advised	him	to	dismiss	all
personal	feelings,	sentiment	or	bias	when	it	came	to	making	a	judgment	on	either	your	client	or	the	case
before	you.	The	law	was	not	a	profession	for	the	faint-hearted	or	the	romantic,	he	stressed.	However,
after	abiding	by	this	mantra	for	four	decades,	the	Lord	Chancellor	had	to	admit	he’d	never	come	across	a
case	that	was	so	finely	balanced.	He	only	wished	F.E.	Smith	was	still	alive,	so	he	could	seek	his	advice.
On	the	one	hand	.	.	.	how	he	hated	those	clichéd	words.	On	the	one	hand,	Harry	Clifton	had	been	born
three	weeks	before	his	closest	friend,	Giles	Barrington:	fact.	On	the	other	hand,	Giles	Barrington	was
unquestionably	the	legitimate	son	of	Sir	Hugo	Barrington	and	his	lawfully	wedded	wife,	Elizabeth:	fact.
But	that	didn’t	make	him	Sir	Hugo’s	first	born,	and	that	was	the	relevant	point	of	the	will.
On	the	one	hand,	Maisie	Tancock	gave	birth	to	Harry	on	the	28th	day	of	the	ninth	month	after	she’d
admitted	having	a	dalliance	with	Sir	Hugo	Barrington	while	they	were	on	a	works	outing	to	Weston-
super-Mare.	Fact.	On	the	other	hand,	Maisie	Tancock	was	married	to	Arthur	Clifton	when	Harry	was
born,	and	the	birth	certificate	stated	unequivocally	that	Arthur	was	the	father	of	the	child.	Fact.
On	the	one	hand	.	.	.	the	Lord	Chancellor’s	thoughts	returned	to	what	had	taken	place	in	the	chamber
after	the	House	had	finally	divided	and	the	members	had	cast	their	votes	as	to	whether	Giles	Barrington
or	Harry	Clifton	should	inherit	the	title	and	all	that	therein	is.	He	recalled	the	Chief	Whip’s	exact	words
when	he	announced	the	result	to	a	packed	House.
‘Contents	to	the	right,	two	hundred	and	seventy-three	votes.	Non-contents	to	the	left,	two	hundred	and
seventy-three	votes.’
Uproar	had	broken	out	on	the	red	benches.	He	accepted	that	the	tied	vote	had	left	him	with	the
unenviable	task	of	having	to	decide	who	should	inherit	the	Barrington	family	title,	the	renowned	shipping
line,	as	well	as	property,	land	and	valuables.	If	only	so	much	hadn’t	rested	on	his	decision	when	it	came
to	the	future	of	these	two	young	men.	Should	he	be	influenced	by	the	fact	that	Giles	Barrington	wished	to
inherit	the	title	and	Harry	Clifton	didn’t?	No,	he	should	not.	As	Lord	Preston	had	pointed	out	in	his
persuasive	speech	from	the	opposition	benches,	that	would	create	a	bad	precedent,	even	if	it	was
convenient.
On	the	other	hand,	if	he	did	come	down	in	favour	of	Harry	.	.	.	he	finally	dozed	off,	only	to	be	woken	bya	gentle	tap	on	the	door	at	the	unusually	late	hour	of	seven	o’clock.	He	groaned,	and	his	eyes	remained
closed	while	he	counted	the	chimes	of	Big	Ben.	Only	three	hours	before	he	had	to	deliver	his	verdict,	and
he	still	hadn’t	made	up	his	mind.
The	Lord	Chancellor	groaned	a	second	time	as	he	placed	his	feet	on	the	floor,	put	on	his	slippers	and
padded	across	to	the	bathroom.	Even	as	he	sat	in	the	bath	he	continued	to	wrestle	with	the	problem.
Fact.	Harry	Clifton	and	Giles	Barrington	were	both	colour	blind,	as	was	Sir	Hugo.	Fact.	Colour
blindness	can	only	be	inherited	through	the	female	line,	so	it	was	nothing	more	than	a	coincidence,	and
should	be	dismissed	as	such.
He	got	out	of	the	bath,	dried	himself	and	pulled	on	a	dressing	gown.	He	then	slipped	out	of	the	bedroom
and	walked	down	the	thickly	carpeted	corridor	until	he	reached	his	study.
The	Lord	Chancellor	picked	up	a	fountain	pen	and	wrote	the	names	‘Barrington’	and	‘Clifton’	on	the
top	line	of	the	page,	under	which	he	began	to	write	the	pros	and	cons	of	each	man’s	case.	By	the	time	he’d
covered	three	pages	in	his	neat	copperplate	hand,	Big	Ben	had	struck	eight	times.	But	still	he	was	none	the
wiser.
He	put	down	his	pen	and	reluctantly	went	in	search	of	sustenance.
The	Lord	Chancellor	sat	alone,	eating	his	breakfast	in	silence.	He	refused	even	to	glance	at	the	morning
newspapers	so	neatly	laid	out	at	the	other	end	of	the	table,	or	to	turn	on	the	radio,	as	he	didn’t	want	some
ill-informed	commentator	to	influence	his	judgment.	The	broadsheets	were	pontificating	on	the	future	of
the	hereditary	principle	should	the	Lord	Chancellor	come	down	in	favour	of	Harry,	while	the	tabloids
only	seemed	interested	in	whether	or	not	Emma	would	be	able	to	marry	the	man	she	loved.
By	the	time	he	returned	to	the	bathroom	to	brush	his	teeth,	the	scales	of	Justice	still	hadn’t	come	down
on	either	side.
Just	after	Big	Ben	chimed	nine,	he	slipped	back	into	his	study	and	went	over	his	notes	in	the	hope	that
the	scales	would	finally	tilt	to	one	side	or	the	other,	but	they	remained	perfectly	balanced.	He	was	going
over	his	notes	yet	again	when	a	tap	on	the	door	reminded	him	that,	however	powerful	he	imagined	he	was,
he	still	couldn’t	hold	up	time.	He	let	out	a	deep	sigh,	tore	three	sheets	off	the	pad,	stood	up,	and	continued
reading	as	he	walked	out	of	his	study	and	down	the	corridor.	When	he	entered	the	bedroom	he	found	East,
his	valet,	standing	at	the	foot	of	the	bed	waiting	to	perform	the	morning	ritual.
East	began	by	deftly	removing	the	silk	dressing	gown	before	helping	his	master	on	with	a	white	shirt
that	was	still	warm	from	ironing.	Next,	a	starched	collar,	followed	by	a	finely	laced	neckerchief.	As	the
Lord	Chancellor	pulled	on	a	pair	of	black	breeches,	he	was	reminded	that	he’d	put	on	a	few	pounds	since
taking	office.	East	then	assisted	him	with	his	long	black	and	gold	gown	before	turning	his	attention	to	his
master’s	head	and	feet.	A	full-bottomed	wig	was	placed	on	his	head	before	he	stepped	into	a	pair	of
buckled	shoes.	It	was	only	when	the	gold	chain	of	office	that	had	been	worn	by	thirty-nine	previous	Lord
Chancellors	was	draped	on	his	shoulders	that	he	became	transformed	from	a	pantomime	dame	into	the
highest	legal	authority	in	the	land.	A	glance	in	the	mirror,	and	he	felt	ready	to	walk	on	stage	and	play	his
part	in	the	unfolding	drama.	Just	a	pity	he	still	didn’t	know	his	lines.
The	timing	of	the	Lord	Chancellor’s	entrance	and	exit	from	the	North	Tower	of	the	Palace	of
Westminster	would	have	impressed	a	regimental	sergeant	major.	At	9.47	a.m.	there	was	a	knock	on	the
door	and	his	secretary,	David	Bartholomew,	entered	the	room.
‘Good	morning,	my	lord,’	he	ventured.
‘Good	morning,	Mr	Bartholomew,’	the	Lord	Chancellor	replied.
‘I	am	sorry	to	have	to	report,’	said	Bartholomew,	‘that	Lord	Harvey	died	last	night,	in	an	ambulance	on
his	way	to	hospital.’
Both	men	knew	this	was	not	true.	Lord	Harvey	–	Giles	and	Emma	Barrington’s	grandfather	–	had
collapsed	in	the	chamber,	only	moments	before	the	division	bell	had	sounded.	However,	they	both
accepted	the	age-old	convention:	if	a	member	of	either	the	Commons	or	the	Lords	died	while	the	Housewas	in	session,	a	full	inquiry	as	to	the	circumstances	of	his	death	had	to	be	set	up.	In	order	to	avoid	this
unpleasant	and	unnecessary	charade,	‘died	on	his	way	to	hospital’	was	the	accepted	form	of	words	that
covered	such	eventualities.	The	custom	dated	back	to	the	time	of	Oliver	Cromwell,	when	members	were
allowed	to	wear	swords	in	the	chamber,	and	foul	play	was	a	distinct	possibility	whenever	there	was	a
death.
The	Lord	Chancellor	was	saddened	by	the	death	of	Lord	Harvey,	a	colleague	he	both	liked	and
admired.	He	only	wished	that	his	secretary	had	not	reminded	him	of	one	of	the	facts	he	had	written	in	his
neat	copperplate	hand	below	the	name	of	Giles	Barrington;	namely,	that	Lord	Harvey	had	been	unable	to
cast	his	vote	after	he’d	collapsed,	and	had	he	done	so,	it	would	have	been	in	favour	of	Giles	Barrington.
That	would	have	settled	the	matter	once	and	for	all,	and	he	could	have	slept	soundly	that	night.	Now	he
was	expected	to	settle	the	matter	once	and	for	all.
Below	the	name	of	Harry	Clifton,	he	had	entered	another	fact.	When	the	original	appeal	had	come
before	the	Law	Lords	six	months	before,	they	had	voted	4–3	in	favour	of	Clifton	inheriting	the	title	and,	to
quote	the	will	.	.	.	and	all	that	therein	is.
A	second	tap	on	the	door,	and	his	train	bearer	appeared,	wearing	another	Gilbert	and	Sullivan-esque
outfit,	to	signal	that	the	ancient	ceremony	was	about	to	begin.
‘Good	morning,	my	lord.’
‘Good	morning,	Mr	Duncan.’
The	moment	the	train	bearer	picked	up	the	hem	of	the	Lord	Chancellor’s	long	black	gown,	David
Bartholomew	stepped	forward	and	thrust	open	the	double	doors	of	the	stateroom	so	his	master	could	set
off	on	the	seven-minute	journey	to	the	chamber	of	the	House	of	Lords.
Members,	badge	messengers	and	house	officials	going	about	their	daily	business	stepped	quickly	to	one
side	when	they	spotted	the	Lord	Chancellor	approaching,	making	sure	his	progress	to	the	chamber	was
unimpeded.	As	he	passed	by,	they	bowed	low,	not	to	him,	but	to	the	Sovereign	he	represented.	He
proceeded	along	the	red-carpeted	corridor	at	the	same	pace	as	he	had	done	every	day	for	the	past	six
years,	in	order	that	he	would	enter	the	chamber	on	the	first	chime	when	Big	Ben	struck	ten	in	the	forenoon.
On	a	normal	day,	and	this	was	not	a	normal	day,	whenever	he	entered	the	chamber	he	would	be	met	by
a	handful	of	members	who	would	rise	politely	from	the	red	benches,	bow	to	the	Lord	Chancellor	and
remain	standing	while	the	bishop	on	duty	conducted	morning	prayers,	after	which	the	business	of	the	day
could	commence.
But	not	today,	because	long	before	he	reached	the	chamber,	he	could	hear	the	murmur	of	chattering
voices.	Even	the	Lord	Chancellor	was	surprised	by	the	sight	that	greeted	him	when	he	entered	their
lordships’	house.	The	red	benches	were	so	packed	that	some	members	had	migrated	to	the	steps	in	front	of
the	throne,	while	others	stood	at	the	bar	of	the	House,	unable	to	find	a	seat.	The	only	other	occasion	on
which	he	remembered	the	House	being	so	full	was	when	His	Majesty	delivered	the	King’s	Speech,	in
which	he	informed	members	of	both	Houses	of	the	legislation	his	government	proposed	to	enact	during	the
next	session	of	Parliament.
As	the	Lord	Chancellor	walked	into	the	chamber,	their	lordships	immediately	stopped	talking,	rose	as
one	and	bowed	when	he	took	his	place	in	front	of	the	Woolsack.
The	senior	law	officer	in	the	land	looked	slowly	around	the	chamber	to	be	met	by	over	a	thousand
impatient	eyes.	His	gaze	finally	settled	on	three	young	people	who	were	seated	at	the	far	end	of	the
chamber,	directly	above	him	in	the	Distinguished	Strangers’	Gallery.	Giles	Barrington,	his	sister	Emma
and	Harry	Clifton	wore	funereal	black	in	respect	for	a	beloved	grandfather	and,	in	Harry’s	case,	a	mentor
and	dear	friend.	He	felt	for	all	three	of	them,	aware	that	the	judgment	he	was	about	to	make	would	change
their	whole	lives.	He	prayed	it	would	be	for	the	better.
When	the	Right	Reverend	Peter	Watts,	Bishop	of	Bristol	–	how	appropriate,	the	Lord	Chancellor
thought	–	opened	his	prayer	book,	their	lordships	bowed	their	heads,	and	didn’t	lift	them	again	until	he’duttered	the	words,	‘In	the	name	of	the	Father,	the	Son	and	the	Holy	Ghost.’
The	assembled	gathering	resumed	their	places,	to	leave	the	Lord	Chancellor	the	only	person	still	on	his
feet.	Once	they’d	settled,	their	lordships	sat	back	and	waited	to	hear	his	verdict.
‘My	lords,’	he	began,	‘I	cannot	pretend	that	the	judgment	you	have	entrusted	me	with	has	proved	easy.
On	the	contrary,	I	confess	it	to	be	one	of	the	most	difficult	decisions	I’ve	had	to	make	in	my	long	career	at
the	bar.	But	then	it	was	Thomas	More	who	reminded	us	that	when	you	don	these	robes	you	must	be	willing
to	make	decisions	that	will	rarely	please	all	men.	And	indeed,	my	lords,	on	three	such	occasions	in	the
past,	the	Lord	Chancellor,	having	delivered	his	judgment,	was	later	that	day	beheaded.’
The	laughter	that	followed	broke	the	tension,	but	only	for	a	moment.
‘However,	it	remains	my	duty	to	remember,’	he	added	after	the	laughter	had	died	down,	‘that	I	am
answerable	only	to	the	Almighty.	With	that	in	mind,	my	lords,	in	the	case	of	Barrington	versus	Clifton,	as
to	who	should	succeed	Sir	Hugo	Barrington	as	his	rightful	heir	and	be	granted	the	family	title,	the	lands
and	all	that	therein	is	.	.	.’
The	Lord	Chancellor	once	again	glanced	up	towards	the	gallery,	and	hesitated.	His	eyes	settled	on	the
three	innocent	young	people	in	the	dock,	who	continued	to	stare	down	at	him.	He	prayed	for	the	Wisdom
of	Solomon	before	he	added,	‘Having	considered	all	the	facts,	I	come	down	in	favour	of	.	.	.	Giles
Barrington.’
A	buzz	of	murmuring	voices	immediately	erupted	from	the	floor	of	the	House.	Journalists	quickly	left
the	press	gallery	to	report	the	Lord	Chancellor’s	ruling	to	their	waiting	editors	that	the	hereditary
principle	remained	intact	and	Harry	Clifton	could	now	ask	Emma	Barrington	to	be	his	lawfully	wedded
wife,	while	the	public	in	the	visitors’	gallery	leant	over	the	balcony	railings	to	see	how	their	lordships
would	react	to	his	judgment.	But	this	was	not	a	football	match,	and	he	was	not	a	referee.	There	would	be
no	need	to	blow	a	whistle,	as	each	member	of	their	lordships’	house	would	accept	and	abide	by	the	Lord
Chancellor’s	ruling	without	division	or	dissent.	As	the	Lord	Chancellor	waited	for	the	clamour	to
subside,	he	once	again	glanced	up	at	the	three	people	in	the	gallery	most	affected	by	his	decision	to	see
how	they	had	reacted.	Harry,	Emma	and	Giles	still	stared	expressionlessly	down	at	him,	as	if	the	full
significance	of	his	judgment	had	not	yet	sunk	in.
After	months	of	uncertainty,	Giles	felt	an	immediate	sense	of	relief,	although	the	death	of	his	beloved
grandfather	removed	any	feeling	of	victory.
Harry	had	only	one	thought	on	his	mind	as	he	gripped	Emma	firmly	by	the	hand.	He	could	now	marry
the	woman	he	loved.
Emma	remained	uncertain.	After	all,	the	Lord	Chancellor	had	created	a	whole	new	set	of	problems	for
the	three	of	them	to	consider	that	he	wouldn’t	be	called	on	to	solve.
The	Lord	Chancellor	opened	his	gold-tasselled	folder	and	studied	the	orders	of	the	day.	A	debate	on
the	proposed	National	Health	Service	was	the	second	item	on	the	agenda.	Several	of	their	lordships
slipped	out	of	the	chamber,	as	business	returned	to	normal.
The	Lord	Chancellor	would	never	admit	to	anyone,	even	his	closest	confidant,	that	he	had	changed	his
mind	at	the	last	moment.HARRY	CLIFTON
AND
EMMA	BARRINGTON
1945–19511
‘T HEREFORE	IF	ANY	MAN 	can	show	any	just	cause	why	these	two	people	may	not	lawfully	be	joined
together	in	holy	matrimony,	let	him	now	speak,	or	else	hereafter	for	ever	hold	his	peace.’
Harry	Clifton	would	never	forget	the	first	time	he’d	heard	those	words,	and	how	moments	later	his
whole	life	had	been	thrown	into	turmoil.	Old	Jack,	who	like	George	Washington	could	never	tell	a	lie,
had	revealed	in	a	hastily	called	meeting	in	the	vestry	that	it	was	possible	that	Emma	Barrington,	the
woman	Harry	adored,	and	who	was	about	to	become	his	wife,	might	be	his	half-sister.
All	hell	had	broken	loose	when	Harry’s	mother	admitted	that	on	one	occasion,	and	only	one,	she	had
had	sexual	intercourse	with	Emma’s	father,	Hugo	Barrington.	Therefore,	there	was	a	possibility	that	he
and	Emma	could	be	the	offspring	of	the	same	father.
At	the	time	of	her	dalliance	with	Hugo	Barrington,	Harry’s	mother	had	been	walking	out	with	Arthur
Clifton,	a	stevedore	who	worked	at	Barrington’s	Shipyard.	Despite	the	fact	that	Maisie	had	married
Arthur	soon	afterwards,	the	priest	refused	to	proceed	with	Harry	and	Emma’s	wedding	while	there	was	a
possibility	it	might	contravene	the	church’s	ancient	laws	on	consanguinity.
Moments	later,	Emma’s	father	Hugo	had	slipped	out	of	the	back	of	the	church,	like	a	coward	leaving	the
battlefield.	Emma	and	her	mother	had	travelled	up	to	Scotland,	while	Harry,	a	desolate	soul,	remained	at
his	college	in	Oxford,	not	knowing	what	to	do	next.	Adolf	Hitler	had	made	that	decision	for	him.
Harry	left	the	university	a	few	days	later	and	exchanged	his	academic	gown	for	an	ordinary	seaman’s
uniform.	But	he	had	been	serving	on	the	high	seas	for	less	than	a	fortnight	when	a	German	torpedo	had
scuppered	his	vessel,	and	the	name	of	Harry	Clifton	appeared	on	the	list	of	those	reported	lost	at	sea.
‘Wilt	thou	take	this	woman	to	thy	wedded	wife,	wilt	thou	keep	thee	only	unto	her,	as	long	as	you	both
shall	live?’
‘I	will.’
It	was	not	until	after	the	end	of	hostilities,	when	Harry	had	returned	from	the	battlefield	scarred	in
glory,	that	he	discovered	Emma	had	given	birth	to	their	son,	Sebastian	Arthur	Clifton.	But	Harry	didn’t
find	out	until	he	had	fully	recovered	that	Hugo	Barrington	had	been	killed	in	the	most	dreadful
circumstances,	and	bequeathed	the	Barrington	family	another	problem,	every	bit	as	devastating	to	Harry
as	not	being	allowed	to	marry	the	woman	he	loved.
Harry	had	never	considered	it	at	all	significant	that	he	was	a	few	weeks	older	than	Giles	Barrington,
Emma’s	brother	and	his	closest	friend,	until	he	learned	that	he	could	be	first	in	line	to	inherit	the	family’s
title,	its	vast	estates,	numerous	possessions,	and,	to	quote	the	will,	all	that	therein	is.	He	quickly	made	it
clear	that	he	had	no	interest	in	the	Barrington	inheritance,	and	was	only	too	willing	to	forfeit	any	birthright
that	might	be	considered	his,	in	favour	of	Giles.	The	Garter	King	of	Arms	seemed	willing	to	go	along	with
this	arrangement,	and	all	might	have	progressed	in	good	faith,	had	Lord	Preston,	a	Labour	backbencher	in
the	Upper	House,	not	taken	it	upon	himself	to	champion	Harry’s	claim	to	the	title,	without	even	consultinghim.
‘It	is	a	matter	of	principle,’	Lord	Preston	had	explained	to	any	lobby	correspondents	who	questioned
him.
‘Wilt	thou	have	this	man	to	thy	wedded	husband,	to	live	together	after	God’s	ordinance,	in	the	holy
estate	of	matrimony?’
‘I	will.’
Harry	and	Giles	had	remained	inseparable	friends	throughout	the	entire	episode,	despite	the	fact	that
they	were	officially	set	against	each	other	in	the	highest	court	in	the	land,	as	well	as	on	the	front	pages	of
the	national	press.
Harry	and	Giles	would	both	have	rejoiced	at	the	Lord	Chancellor’s	decision	had	Emma	and	Giles’s
grandfather	Lord	Harvey	been	in	his	seat	on	the	front	bench	to	hear	the	ruling,	but	he	never	learned	of	his
triumph.	The	nation	remained	divided	by	the	outcome,	while	the	two	families	were	left	to	pick	up	the
pieces.
The	other	consequence	of	the	Lord	Chancellor’s	ruling	was,	as	the	press	were	quick	to	point	out	to
their	rapacious	readers,	that	the	highest	court	in	the	land	had	ordained	that	Harry	and	Emma	were	not	of
the	same	bloodline,	and	therefore	he	was	free	to	invite	her	to	be	his	lawfully	wedded	wife.
‘With	this	ring	I	thee	wed,	with	my	body	I	thee	worship,	and	with	all	my	worldly	goods	I	thee
endow.’
However,	Harry	and	Emma	both	knew	that	a	decision	made	by	man	did	not	prove	beyond	reasonable
doubt	that	Hugo	Barrington	was	not	Harry’s	father,	and	as	practising	Christians,	it	worried	them	that	they
might	be	breaking	God’s	law.
Their	love	for	each	other	had	not	diminished	in	the	face	of	all	they	had	been	through.	If	anything,	it	had
grown	stronger,	and	with	the	encouragement	of	her	mother,	Elizabeth,	and	the	blessing	of	Harry’s	mother
Maisie,	Emma	accepted	Harry’s	proposal	of	marriage.	It	only	saddened	her	that	neither	of	her
grandmothers	had	lived	to	attend	the	ceremony.
The	nuptials	did	not	take	place	in	Oxford,	as	originally	planned,	with	all	the	pomp	and	circumstance	of
a	university	wedding,	and	the	inevitable	glare	of	publicity	that	would	accompany	it,	but	at	a	simple,
register	office	ceremony	in	Bristol,	with	only	the	family	and	a	few	close	friends	in	attendance.
Perhaps	the	saddest	decision	that	Harry	and	Emma	reluctantly	agreed	on	was	that	Sebastian	Arthur
Clifton	would	be	their	only	child.2
H ARRY	AND 	E MMA 	left	for	Scotland	to	spend	their	honeymoon	in	Mulgelrie	Castle,	the	ancestral	home	of
Lord	and	Lady	Harvey,	Emma’s	late	grandparents,	but	not	before	they	had	left	Sebastian	in	Elizabeth’s
safe	keeping.
The	castle	brought	back	many	happy	memories	of	the	time	they’d	spent	a	holiday	there	just	before
Harry	went	up	to	Oxford.	They	roamed	the	hills	together	during	the	day,	rarely	returning	to	the	castle
before	the	sun	had	disappeared	behind	the	highest	mountain.	After	supper,	the	cook	having	recalled	how
Master	Clifton	liked	three	portions	of	broth,	they	sat	by	a	roaring	log	fire	reading	Evelyn	Waugh,	Graham
Greene	and,	Harry’s	favourite,	P.	G.	Wodehouse.
After	a	fortnight,	during	which	time	they	encountered	more	Highland	cattle	than	human	beings,	they
reluctantly	set	out	on	the	long	journey	back	to	Bristol.	They	arrived	at	the	Manor	House	looking	forward
to	a	life	of	domestic	tranquillity,	but	it	was	not	to	be.
Elizabeth	confessed	that	she	couldn’t	wait	to	get	Sebastian	off	her	hands;	tears	before	bedtime	had
occurred	once	too	often,	she	told	them	as	her	Siamese	cat,	Cleopatra,	leapt	up	on	to	her	mistress’s	lap	and
promptly	fell	asleep.	‘Frankly,	you	haven’t	arrived	a	moment	too	soon,’	she	added.	‘I	haven’t	managed	to
complete	The	Times	crossword	once	in	the	past	fortnight.’
Harry	thanked	his	mother-in-law	for	her	understanding,	and	he	and	Emma	took	their	hyperactive	five-
year-old	back	to	Barrington	Hall.
Before	Harry	and	Emma	were	married,	Giles	had	insisted	that	as	he	spent	the	majority	of	his	time	in
London	carrying	out	his	duties	as	a	Labour	Member	of	Parliament,	they	were	to	consider	Barrington	Hall
as	their	home.	With	its	ten-thousand-book	library,	expansive	park	and	ample	stables,	it	was	ideal	for
them.	Harry	could	write	his	William	Warwick	detective	novels	in	peace,	while	Emma	rode	every	day,	and
Sebastian	played	in	the	spacious	grounds,	regularly	bringing	strange	animals	home	to	join	him	for	tea.
Giles	would	often	drive	down	to	Bristol	on	Friday	evenings	in	time	to	join	them	for	dinner.	On
Saturday	morning	he	would	conduct	a	constituency	surgery,	before	dropping	into	the	dock	workers’	club
for	a	couple	of	pints	with	his	agent,	Griff	Haskins.	In	the	afternoon,	he	and	Griff	would	join	10,000	of	his
constituents	at	Eastville	Stadium	to	watch	Bristol	Rovers	lose	more	times	than	they	won.	Giles	never
admitted,	even	to	his	agent,	that	he	would	rather	have	spent	his	Saturday	afternoons	watching	Bristol	play
rugby,	but	had	he	done	so	Griff	would	have	reminded	him	that	the	crowd	at	the	Memorial	Ground	was
rarely	more	than	two	thousand,	and	most	of	them	voted	Conservative.
On	Sunday	mornings,	Giles	could	be	found	on	his	knees	at	St	Mary	Redcliffe,	with	Harry	and	Emma	by
his	side.	Harry	assumed	that	for	Giles	this	was	just	another	constituency	duty,	as	he’d	always	looked	for
any	excuse	to	avoid	chapel	at	school.	But	no	one	could	deny	that	Giles	was	quickly	gaining	a	reputation	asa	conscientious,	hard-working	Member	of	Parliament.
And	then	suddenly,	without	explanation,	Giles’s	weekend	visits	became	less	and	less	frequent.
Whenever	Emma	raised	the	subject	with	her	brother,	he	mumbled	something	about	parliamentary	duties.
Harry	remained	unconvinced,	and	hoped	that	his	brother-in-law’s	long	absences	from	the	constituency
would	not	eat	into	his	slim	majority	at	the	next	election.
One	Friday	evening,	they	discovered	the	real	reason	Giles	had	been	otherwise	engaged	for	the	past	few
months.
He	had	rung	Emma	earlier	in	the	week	to	warn	her	that	he	was	coming	down	to	Bristol	for	the
weekend,	and	would	arrive	in	time	for	dinner	on	Friday.	What	he	hadn’t	told	her	was	that	he	would	be
accompanied	by	a	guest.
Emma	usually	liked	Giles’s	girlfriends,	who	were	always	attractive,	often	a	little	scatty	and	without
exception	adored	him,	even	if	most	of	them	didn’t	last	long	enough	for	her	to	get	to	know	them.	But	that
was	not	to	be	the	case	this	time.
When	Giles	introduced	Virginia	to	her	on	Friday	evening,	Emma	was	puzzled	by	what	her	brother
could	possibly	see	in	the	woman.	Emma	accepted	that	she	was	beautiful	and	well	connected.	In	fact
Virginia	reminded	them	more	than	once	that	she’d	been	Deb	of	the	Year	(in	1934),	and	three	times	that	she
was	the	daughter	of	the	Earl	of	Fenwick,	before	they’d	even	sat	down	for	dinner.
Emma	might	have	dismissed	this	as	simply	being	nerves,	if	Virginia	hadn’t	picked	at	her	food	and
whispered	to	Giles	during	dinner,	in	tones	she	must	have	known	they	could	overhear,	how	difficult	it	must
be	to	find	decent	domestic	staff	in	Gloucestershire.	To	Emma’s	surprise,	Giles	just	smiled	at	these
observations,	never	once	disagreeing	with	her.	Emma	was	just	about	to	say	something	she	knew	she
would	regret,	when	Virginia	announced	that	she	was	exhausted	after	such	a	long	day	and	wished	to	retire.
Once	she	had	upped	and	departed,	with	Giles	following	a	pace	behind,	Emma	walked	through	to	the
drawing	room,	poured	herself	a	large	whisky	and	sank	into	the	nearest	chair.
‘God	knows	what	my	mother	will	make	of	the	Lady	Virginia.’
Harry	smiled.	‘It	won’t	matter	much	what	Elizabeth	thinks,	because	I	have	a	feeling	Virginia	will	last
about	as	long	as	most	of	Giles’s	other	girlfriends.’
‘I’m	not	so	sure,’	said	Emma.	‘But	what	puzzles	me	is	why	she’s	interested	in	Giles,	because	she’s
clearly	not	in	love	with	him.’
When	Giles	and	Virginia	drove	back	to	London	after	lunch	on	Sunday	afternoon,	Emma	quickly	forgot
about	the	Earl	of	Fenwick’s	daughter	as	she	had	to	deal	with	a	far	more	pressing	problem.	Yet	another
nanny	had	handed	in	her	notice,	declaring	that	it	had	been	the	last	straw	when	she’d	found	a	hedgehog	in
her	bed.	Harry	felt	some	sympathy	for	the	poor	woman.
‘It	doesn’t	help	that	he’s	an	only	child,’	said	Emma	after	she’d	finally	got	her	son	to	sleep	that	night.	‘It
can’t	be	fun	having	no	one	to	play	with.’
‘It	never	worried	me,’	said	Harry,	not	looking	up	from	his	book.
‘Your	mother	told	me	you	were	quite	a	handful	before	you	went	to	St	Bede’s	school,	and	in	any	case,
when	you	were	his	age,	you	spent	more	time	down	at	the	docks	than	you	did	at	home.’
‘Well,	it	won’t	be	long	before	he	starts	at	St	Bede’s.’
‘And	what	do	you	expect	me	to	do	in	the	meantime?	Drop	him	off	at	the	docks	every	morning?’
‘Not	a	bad	idea.’
‘Be	serious,	my	darling.	If	it	hadn’t	been	for	Old	Jack,	you’d	still	be	there	now.’
‘True,’	said	Harry,	as	he	raised	his	glass	to	the	great	man.	‘But	what	can	we	do	about	it?’
Emma	took	so	long	to	reply	that	Harry	wondered	if	she’d	fallen	asleep.	‘Perhaps	the	time	has	come	forus	to	have	another	child.’
Harry	was	so	taken	by	surprise	that	he	closed	his	book	and	looked	closely	at	his	wife,	unsure	if	he’d
heard	her	correctly.	‘But	I	thought	we’d	agreed	.	.	.’
‘We	did.	And	I	haven’t	changed	my	mind,	but	there’s	no	reason	why	we	shouldn’t	consider	adoption.’
‘What’s	brought	this	on,	my	darling?’
‘I	can’t	stop	thinking	about	the	little	girl	who	was	found	in	my	father’s	office	the	night	he	died’	–	Emma
could	never	bring	herself	to	say	the	word	killed	–	‘and	the	possibility	that	she	might	be	his	child.’
‘But	there’s	no	proof	of	that.	And	in	any	case,	I’m	not	sure	how	you’d	find	out	where	she	is	after	all	this
time.’
‘I	was	thinking	of	consulting	a	well-known	detective	writer,	and	seeking	his	advice.’
Harry	thought	carefully	before	he	spoke.	‘William	Warwick	would	probably	recommend	that	you	try
and	track	down	Derek	Mitchell.’
‘But	surely	you	can’t	have	forgotten	that	Mitchell	worked	for	my	father,	and	didn’t	exactly	have	our
best	interests	at	heart.’
‘True,’	said	Harry,	‘and	that’s	exactly	why	I	would	seek	his	advice.	After	all,	he’s	the	one	person	who
knows	where	all	the	bodies	are	buried.’
They	agreed	to	meet	at	the	Grand	Hotel.	Emma	arrived	a	few	minutes	early	and	selected	a	seat	in	the
corner	of	the	lounge	where	they	could	not	be	overheard.	While	she	waited,	she	went	over	the	questions
she	planned	to	ask	him.
Mr	Mitchell	walked	into	the	lounge	as	the	clock	struck	four.	Although	he’d	put	on	a	little	weight	since
she’d	last	seen	him,	and	his	hair	was	greyer,	the	unmistakable	limp	was	still	his	calling	card.	Her	first
thought	was	that	he	looked	more	like	a	bank	manager	than	a	private	detective.	He	clearly	recognized
Emma,	because	he	headed	straight	for	her.
‘It’s	nice	to	see	you	again,	Mrs	Clifton,’	he	ventured.
‘Please	have	a	seat,’	Emma	said,	wondering	if	he	was	as	nervous	as	she	was.	She	decided	to	get
straight	to	the	point.	‘I	wanted	to	see	you,	Mr	Mitchell,	because	I	need	the	help	of	a	private	detective.’
Mitchell	shifted	uneasily	in	his	chair.
‘When	we	last	met,	I	promised	I	would	settle	the	rest	of	my	father’s	debt	to	you.’	This	had	been	Harry’s
suggestion.	He	said	it	would	make	Mitchell	realize	she	was	serious	about	employing	him.	She	opened	her
handbag,	extracted	an	envelope	and	handed	it	to	Mitchell.
‘Thank	you,’	said	Mitchell,	clearly	surprised.
Emma	continued,	‘You	will	recall	when	I	last	saw	you	we	discussed	the	baby	who	was	found	in	the
wicker	basket	in	my	father’s	office.	Detective	Chief	Inspector	Blakemore,	who	was	in	charge	of	the	case,
as	I’m	sure	you	remember,	told	my	husband	the	little	girl	had	been	taken	into	care	by	the	local	authority.’
‘That	would	be	standard	practice,	assuming	no	one	came	forward	to	claim	her.’
‘Yes,	I’ve	already	discovered	that	much,	and	only	yesterday	I	spoke	to	the	person	in	charge	of	that
department	at	City	Hall,	but	he	refused	to	supply	me	with	any	details	as	to	where	the	little	girl	might	be
now.’
‘That	will	have	been	at	the	instruction	of	the	coroner	following	the	inquest,	to	protect	the	child	from
inquisitive	journalists.	It	doesn’t	mean	there	aren’t	ways	of	finding	out	where	she	is.’
‘I’m	glad	to	hear	that.’	Emma	hesitated.	‘But	before	we	go	down	that	path,	I	need	to	be	convinced	that
the	little	girl	was	my	father’s	child.’
‘I	can	assure	you,	Mrs	Clifton,	there	isn’t	any	doubt	about	that.’
‘How	can	you	be	so	sure?’‘I	could	supply	you	with	all	the	details,	but	it	might	cause	you	some	discomfort.’
‘Mr	Mitchell,	I	cannot	believe	that	anything	you	could	tell	me	about	my	father	would	surprise	me.’
Mitchell	remained	silent	for	a	few	moments.	Eventually	he	said,	‘During	the	time	I	worked	for	Sir
Hugo,	you’ll	be	aware	that	he	moved	to	London.’
‘Ran	away	on	the	day	of	my	wedding,	would	be	more	accurate.’
Mitchell	didn’t	comment.	‘About	a	year	later,	he	began	living	with	a	Miss	Olga	Piotrovska	in	Lowndes
Square.’
‘How	could	he	afford	that,	when	my	grandfather	had	cut	him	off	without	a	penny?’
‘He	couldn’t.	To	put	it	bluntly,	he	was	not	only	living	with	Miss	Piotrovska,	but	living	off	her.’
‘Can	you	tell	me	anything	about	this	lady?’
‘A	great	deal.	She	was	Polish	by	birth,	and	escaped	from	Warsaw	in	1941,	soon	after	her	parents	were
arrested.’
‘What	was	their	crime?’
‘Being	Jewish,’	said	Mitchell	without	feeling.	‘She	managed	to	get	across	the	border	with	some	of	the
family’s	possessions,	and	made	her	way	to	London,	where	she	rented	a	flat	in	Lowndes	Square.	It	wasn’t
long	after	that	that	she	met	your	father	at	a	cocktail	party	given	by	a	mutual	friend.	He	courted	the	lady	for
a	few	weeks	and	then	moved	into	her	apartment,	giving	his	word	that	they	would	be	married	as	soon	as
his	divorce	came	through.’
‘I	said	nothing	would	surprise	me.	I	was	wrong.’
‘It	gets	worse,’	said	Mitchell.	‘When	your	grandfather	died,	Sir	Hugo	immediately	dumped	Miss
Piotrovska,	and	returned	to	Bristol	to	claim	his	inheritance	and	take	over	as	chairman	of	the	board	of
Barrington’s	shipping	line.	But	not	before	he’d	stolen	all	of	Miss	Piotrovska’s	jewellery	as	well	as
several	valuable	paintings.’
‘If	that’s	true,	why	wasn’t	he	arrested?’
‘He	was,’	said	Mitchell,	‘and	was	about	to	be	charged	when	his	associate,	Toby	Dunstable,	who	had
turned	King’s	evidence,	committed	suicide	in	his	cell	the	night	before	the	trial.’
Emma	bowed	her	head.
‘Would	you	rather	I	didn’t	continue,	Mrs	Clifton?’
‘No,’	said	Emma	looking	directly	at	him.	‘I	need	to	know	everything.’
‘Although	your	father	wasn’t	aware	of	it	when	he	returned	to	Bristol,	Miss	Piotrovska	was	pregnant.
She	gave	birth	to	a	little	girl,	who	is	named	on	the	birth	certificate	as	Jessica	Piotrovska.’
‘How	do	you	know	that?’
‘Because	Miss	Piotrovska	employed	me	when	your	father	could	no	longer	pay	my	bills.	Ironically,	she
ran	out	of	money	just	as	your	father	inherited	a	fortune.	That	was	the	reason	she	travelled	down	to	Bristol
with	Jessica.	She	wanted	Sir	Hugo	to	know	he	had	another	daughter,	as	she	felt	it	was	his	responsibility	to
bring	the	girl	up.’
‘And	now	it’s	my	responsibility,’	said	Emma	quietly.	She	paused.	‘But	I’ve	no	idea	how	to	go	about
finding	her,	and	I	was	hoping	you	could	help.’
‘I’ll	do	whatever	I	can,	Mrs	Clifton.	But	after	all	this	time,	it	won’t	be	easy.	If	I	come	up	with	anything,
you’ll	be	the	first	to	hear,’	the	detective	added	as	he	rose	from	his	seat.
As	Mitchell	limped	away,	Emma	felt	a	little	guilty.	She	hadn’t	even	offered	him	a	cup	of	tea.
Emma	couldn’t	wait	to	get	home	and	tell	Harry	about	her	meeting	with	Mitchell.	When	she	burst	into	the
library	at	Barrington	Hall,	he	was	putting	down	the	phone.	He	had	such	a	huge	grin	on	his	face	that	all	she
said	was,	‘You	first.’‘My	American	publishers	want	me	to	do	a	tour	of	the	States	when	they	launch	the	new	book	next
month.’
‘That’s	wonderful	news,	darling.	At	last	you’ll	get	to	meet	Great-aunt	Phyllis,	not	to	mention	Cousin
Alistair.’
‘I	can’t	wait.’
‘Don’t	mock,	child!’
‘I’m	not,	because	my	publishers	have	suggested	you	join	me	on	the	trip,	so	you’ll	be	able	to	see	them
too.’
‘I’d	love	to	go	with	you,	darling,	but	the	timing	couldn’t	be	worse.	Nanny	Ryan	has	packed	her	bags,
and	I’m	embarrassed	to	say	that	the	agency’s	taken	us	off	their	books.’
‘Perhaps	I	could	get	my	publishers	to	agree	to	Seb	coming	along	as	well.’
‘Which	would	probably	result	in	all	of	us	being	deported,’	said	Emma.	‘No,	I’ll	stay	at	home	with	Seb,
while	you	go	off	and	conquer	the	colonies.’
Harry	took	his	wife	in	his	arms.	‘Pity.	I	was	looking	forward	to	a	second	honeymoon.	By	the	way,	how
did	your	meeting	with	Mitchell	go?’
Harry	was	in	Edinburgh	addressing	a	literary	lunch	when	Derek	Mitchell	phoned	Emma.
‘I	may	have	a	lead,’	he	said,	not	giving	his	name.	‘When	can	we	meet?’
‘Ten	o’clock	tomorrow	morning,	same	place?’
No	sooner	had	she	put	the	phone	down	than	it	rang	again.	She	picked	it	up,	to	find	her	sister	on	the	other
end	of	the	line.
‘What	a	pleasant	surprise,	Grace,	but	knowing	you,	you’ll	have	a	good	reason	for	calling.’
‘Some	of	us	have	full-time	jobs,’	Grace	reminded	her.	‘But	you’re	right.	I	rang	because	last	night	I
attended	a	lecture	given	by	Professor	Cyrus	Feldman.’
‘The	double	Pulitzer	Prize-winner?’	said	Emma,	hoping	to	impress	her	sister.	‘Stanford	University,	if	I
remember	correctly.’
‘I’m	impressed,’	said	Grace.	‘More	to	the	point,	you’d	have	been	fascinated	by	the	talk	he	gave.’
‘He’s	an	economist,	if	I	recall?’	said	Emma,	trying	to	keep	her	head	above	water.	‘Hardly	my	field.’
‘Or	mine,	but	when	he	spoke	about	transport.	.	.’
‘Sounds	riveting.’
‘It	was,’	said	Grace,	ignoring	her	sarcasm,	‘especially	when	he	touched	on	the	future	of	shipping,	now
that	the	British	Overseas	Airways	Corporation	is	planning	to	start	a	regular	air	service	from	London	to
New	York.’
Emma	was	suddenly	aware	of	why	her	sister	had	rung.	‘Any	hope	of	getting	a	transcript	of	the	lecture?’
‘You	can	do	better	than	that.	His	next	port	of	call	is	Bristol,	so	you	can	go	along	and	hear	him	in
person.’
‘Perhaps	I	could	have	a	word	with	him	after	the	lecture.	There’s	so	much	I’d	like	to	ask	him,’	said
Emma.
‘Good	idea,	but	if	you	do,	be	warned.	Although	he’s	one	of	those	rare	men	whose	brain	is	bigger	than
his	balls,	he’s	on	his	fourth	wife,	and	there	was	no	sign	of	her	last	night.’
Emma	laughed.	‘You’re	so	crude,	sis,	but	thanks	for	the	advice.’
Harry	took	the	train	from	Edinburgh	to	Manchester	the	following	morning	and,	after	addressing	a	small
gathering	in	the	city’s	municipal	library,	agreed	to	take	questions.The	first	was	inevitably	from	a	member	of	the	press.	They	rarely	announced	themselves,	and	seemed	to
have	little	or	no	interest	in	his	latest	book.	Today	it	was	the	turn	of	the	Manchester	Guardian.
‘How	is	Mrs	Clifton?’
‘Well,	thank	you,’	Harry	replied	cautiously.
‘Is	it	true	you’re	both	living	in	the	same	house	as	Sir	Giles	Barrington?’
‘It’s	quite	a	big	house.’
‘Do	you	feel	any	resentment	about	the	fact	that	Sir	Giles	got	everything	in	his	father’s	will,	and	you	got
nothing?’
‘Certainly	not.	I	got	Emma,	which	is	all	I	ever	wanted.’
That	seemed	to	silence	the	journalist	for	a	moment,	allowing	a	member	of	the	public	the	chance	to	jump
in.
‘When	will	William	Warwick	get	Chief	Inspector	Davenport’s	job?’
‘Not	in	the	next	book,’	said	Harry	with	a	smile.	‘I	can	assure	you	of	that.’
‘Is	it	true,	Mr	Clifton,	that	you’ve	lost	seven	nannies	in	less	than	three	years?’
Manchester	clearly	had	more	than	one	newspaper.
In	the	car	on	the	way	back	to	the	station,	Harry	began	to	grumble	about	the	press,	although	the
Manchester	rep	pointed	out	that	all	the	publicity	didn’t	seem	to	be	harming	his	sales.	But	Harry	knew	that
Emma	was	becoming	concerned	about	the	endless	press	attention,	and	the	effect	it	might	have	on
Sebastian	once	he	started	school.
‘Little	boys	can	be	so	brutal,’	she’d	reminded	him.
‘Well,	at	least	he	won’t	be	thrashed	for	licking	his	porridge	bowl,’	said	Harry.
Although	Emma	was	a	few	minutes	early,	Mitchell	was	already	seated	in	the	alcove	when	she	walked	into
the	hotel	lounge.	He	stood	up	the	moment	she	joined	him.	The	first	thing	she	said,	even	before	she	sat
down,	was,	‘Would	you	like	a	cup	of	tea,	Mr	Mitchell?’
‘No,	thank	you,	Mrs	Clifton.’	Mitchell,	not	a	man	for	small	talk,	sat	back	down	and	opened	his	note
book.	‘It	seems	the	local	authority	has	placed	Jessica	Smith—’
‘Smith?’	said	Emma.	‘Why	not	Piotrovska,	or	even	Barrington?’
‘Too	easy	to	trace,	would	be	my	bet,	and	I	suspect	the	coroner	insisted	on	anonymity	following	the
inquest.	The	local	authority,’	he	continued,	‘sent	a	Miss	J.	Smith	to	a	Dr	Barnardo’s	home	in	Bridgwater.’
‘Why	Bridgwater?’
‘Probably	the	nearest	home	that	had	a	vacancy	at	the	time.’
‘Is	she	still	there?’
‘As	far	as	I	can	make	out,	yes.	But	I’ve	recently	discovered	that	Barnardo’s	is	planning	to	send	several
of	their	girls	to	homes	in	Australia.’
‘Why	would	they	do	that?’
‘It’s	part	of	Australia’s	immigration	policy	to	pay	ten	pounds	to	assist	young	people’s	passage	to	their
country,	and	they’re	particularly	keen	on	girls.’
‘I	would	have	thought	they’d	be	more	interested	in	boys.’
‘It	seems	they’ve	already	got	enough	of	them,’	said	Mitchell,	displaying	a	rare	grin.
‘Then	we’d	better	visit	Bridgwater	as	soon	as	possible.’
‘Hold	on,	Mrs	Clifton.	If	you	appear	too	enthusiastic,	they	might	put	two	and	two	together	and	work	out
why	you’re	so	interested	in	Miss	J.	Smith,	and	decide	you	and	Mr	Clifton	aren’t	suitable	foster	parents.’
‘But	what	reason	could	they	possibly	have	to	deny	us?’
‘Your	name	for	a	start.	Not	to	mention	that	you	and	Mr	Clifton	weren’t	married	when	your	son	wasborn.’
‘So	what	do	you	recommend?’	asked	Emma	quietly.
‘Make	an	application	through	the	usual	channels.	Don’t	appear	to	be	in	a	rush,	and	make	it	look	as	if
they	are	taking	the	decisions.’
‘But	how	do	we	know	they	won’t	turn	us	down	anyway?’
‘You’ll	have	to	nudge	them	in	the	right	direction,	won’t	you,	Mrs	Clifton.’
‘What	are	you	suggesting?’
‘When	you	fill	in	the	application	form,	you’re	asked	to	put	down	any	preferences	you	might	have.	It
saves	everyone	a	lot	of	time	and	trouble.	So	if	you	make	it	clear	that	you’re	looking	for	a	girl	of	around
five	or	six,	as	you	already	have	a	son	who’s	a	little	older,	it	should	help	narrow	the	field.’
‘Any	other	suggestions?’
‘Yes,’	replied	Mitchell.	‘Under	religion,	tick	the	box	marked	no	preference.’
‘Why	will	that	help?’
‘Because	Miss	Jessica	Smith’s	registration	form	states	mother	Jewish,	father	unknown.’3
‘H OW	DID	A	LIMEY 	ever	get	the	Silver	Star?’	asked	the	immigration	officer	at	Idlewild	as	he	studied
Harry’s	entry	visa.
‘It’s	a	long	story,’	said	Harry,	thinking	it	might	not	be	wise	to	tell	him	that	the	last	time	he’d	set	foot	in
New	York	he’d	been	arrested	for	murder.
‘Have	a	great	time	while	you’re	in	the	States.’	The	officer	shook	Harry	by	the	hand.
‘Thank	you,’	said	Harry,	trying	not	to	look	surprised	as	he	passed	through	immigration	and	followed	the
signs	to	the	baggage	claim	area.	As	he	waited	for	his	suitcase	to	appear,	he	once	again	checked	his	arrival
instructions.	He	was	to	be	met	by	Viking’s	chief	publicist,	who	would	accompany	him	to	his	hotel	and
brief	him	on	his	schedule.	Whenever	he	visited	a	city	in	Britain,	he	was	always	accompanied	by	the	local
sales	rep,	so	he	wasn’t	quite	sure	what	a	publicist	was.
After	retrieving	his	old	school	trunk,	Harry	made	his	way	towards	customs.	An	officer	asked	him	to
open	the	trunk,	made	a	cursory	check,	then	chalked	a	large	cross	on	the	side	before	ushering	him	through.
Harry	walked	under	a	huge	semi-circular	sign	that	declared	Welcome	to	New	York,	above	a	beaming
photograph	of	the	mayor,	William	O’Dwyer.
Once	he	emerged	into	the	arrivals	hall,	he	was	greeted	by	a	row	of	uniformed	chauffeurs	holding	up
name	cards.	He	searched	for	‘Clifton’	and,	when	he	spotted	it,	smiled	at	the	driver	and	said,	‘That’s	me.’
‘Good	to	meet	you,	Mr	Clifton.	I’m	Charlie.’	He	grabbed	Harry’s	heavy	trunk	as	if	it	was	a	briefcase.
‘And	this	is	your	publicist,	Natalie.’
Harry	turned	to	see	a	young	woman	who	had	been	referred	to	on	his	instructions	simply	as	‘N.
Redwood’.	She	was	almost	as	tall	as	him,	with	fashionably	cut	blonde	hair,	blue	eyes,	and	teeth	straighter
and	whiter	than	any	he’d	ever	seen,	except	for	on	a	billboard	advertising	toothpaste.	If	that	wasn’t	enough,
her	head	rested	on	an	hourglass	figure.	Harry	had	never	come	across	anything	like	Natalie	in	post-war,
ration-book	Britain.
‘Nice	to	meet	you,	Miss	Redwood,’	he	said,	shaking	her	hand.
‘And	it’s	good	to	meet	you,	Harry,’	she	replied.	‘Do	call	me	Natalie,’	she	added	as	they	followed
Charlie	out	of	the	concourse.	‘I’m	a	huge	fan.	I	just	love	William	Warwick,	and	have	no	doubt	your	latest
book	is	going	to	be	another	winner.’
Once	they	reached	the	kerb,	Charlie	opened	the	rear	door	of	the	longest	limousine	Harry	had	ever	seen.
Harry	stood	aside	to	allow	Natalie	to	get	in	first.
‘Oh,	I	do	love	the	English,’	she	said	as	he	climbed	in	beside	her,	and	the	limo	joined	a	stream	of	traffic
making	its	slow	progress	into	New	York.	‘First,	we’ll	be	going	to	your	hotel.	I’ve	booked	you	into	the
Pierre,	where	you	have	a	suite	on	the	eleventh	floor.	I’ve	left	just	enough	time	in	your	schedule	for	you	to
freshen	up	before	you	join	Mr	Guinzburg	for	lunch	at	the	Harvard	Club.	By	the	way,	he’s	looking	forward
to	meeting	you.’‘Me	too,’	said	Henry.	‘He	published	my	prison	diaries,	as	well	as	the	first	William	Warwick	novel,	so
I’ve	a	lot	to	thank	him	for.’
‘And	he’s	invested	a	great	deal	of	time	and	money	to	make	sure	Nothing	Ventured	gets	on	to	the
bestseller	list,	and	he	asked	me	to	brief	you	fully	on	how	we	plan	to	go	about	that.’
‘Please	do,’	said	Harry	as	he	glanced	out	of	the	window	to	enjoy	sights	he’d	last	seen	from	the	back	of
a	yellow	prison	bus	that	was	taking	him	off	to	a	jail	cell	rather	than	a	suite	at	the	Pierre	Hotel.
A	hand	touched	his	leg.	‘There’s	a	lot	we	have	to	cover	before	you	see	Mr	Guinzburg.’	Natalie	handed
him	a	thick	blue	folder.	‘Let	me	start	by	explaining	how	we	intend	to	go	about	getting	your	book	on	to	the
bestseller	list,	because	it’s	very	different	from	the	way	you	do	things	in	England.’
Harry	opened	the	folder	and	tried	to	concentrate.	He’d	never	before	sat	next	to	a	woman	who	looked	as
if	she’d	been	poured	into	her	dress.
‘In	America,’	Natalie	continued,	‘you’ve	only	got	three	weeks	to	make	sure	your	book	hits	the	New
York	Times	bestseller	list.	If	you	don’t	make	it	into	the	top	fifteen	during	that	time,	the	bookstores	will
pack	up	their	stock	of	Nothing	Ventured	and	return	them	to	the	publisher.’
‘That’s	crazy,’	said	Harry.	‘In	England	once	a	bookseller	has	placed	an	order,	as	far	as	the	publisher	is
concerned	the	book	is	sold.’
‘You	don’t	offer	bookstores	a	sale	or	return	option?’
‘Certainly	not,’	said	Harry,	shocked	by	the	idea.
‘And	is	it	also	true	that	you	still	sell	books	without	offering	a	discount?’
‘Yes,	of	course.’
‘Well,	you’re	going	to	find	that’s	the	other	big	difference	over	here,	because	if	you	do	make	it	into	the
top	fifteen,	the	cover	price	will	automatically	be	halved,	and	your	book	will	be	moved	to	the	back	of	the
store.’
‘Why?	Surely	a	bestseller	should	be	prominently	displayed	at	the	front	of	the	shop,	even	in	the	window,
and	certainly	not	be	discounted.’
‘Not	since	the	advertising	boys	discovered	that	if	a	customer	comes	in	looking	for	a	particular
bestseller,	and	they	have	to	go	to	the	back	of	the	store	to	find	it,	one	in	five	customers	buys	two	more
books	on	their	way	to	the	sales	counter,	while	one	in	three	picks	up	another	one.’
‘Clever,	but	I’m	not	sure	that	will	ever	catch	on	in	England.’
‘I	suspect	it	will	only	be	a	matter	of	time,	but	at	least	you’ll	now	appreciate	why	it’s	so	important	to	get
your	book	on	the	list	as	quickly	as	possible,	because	once	the	price	is	halved,	you’re	likely	to	stay	in	the
top	fifteen	for	several	weeks.	In	fact,	it’s	harder	to	get	off	the	list	than	to	get	on.	But	if	you	fail,	Nothing
Ventured	will	have	disappeared	from	the	bookshelves	a	month	today,	and	we	will	have	lost	a	great	deal
of	money.’
‘I	get	the	message,’	said	Harry	as	the	limousine	passed	slowly	over	Brooklyn	Bridge	and	he	was
reunited	with	yellow	cabs	and	their	cigar-stub-smoking	drivers.
‘What	makes	it	even	tougher	is	that	we	have	to	visit	seventeen	different	cities	in	twenty-one	days.’
‘We?’
‘Yes,	I’ll	be	holding	your	hand	throughout	the	trip,’	she	said	casually.	‘I	usually	stay	in	New	York	and
allow	a	local	publicist	in	each	city	to	look	after	visiting	authors,	but	not	this	time,	because	Mr	Guinzburg
insisted	I	wasn’t	to	leave	your	side.’	She	lightly	touched	his	leg	again,	before	turning	a	page	of	the	folder
on	her	lap.
Harry	glanced	at	her,	and	she	gave	a	coquettish	smile.	Was	she	flirting	with	him?	No,	that	wasn’t
possible.	After	all,	they’d	only	just	met.
‘I’ve	already	got	you	booked	on	to	several	of	the	major	radio	stations,	including	the	Matt	Jacobs	Show,
which	has	eleven	million	listeners	every	morning.	No	one’s	more	effective	than	Matt	when	it	comes	to
moving	books	out	of	the	stores.’Harry	had	several	questions	he	would	like	to	have	asked,	but	Natalie	was	like	a	Winchester	rifle,	a
bullet	was	fired	every	time	you	raised	your	head.
‘Be	warned,’	she	continued,	not	drawing	breath,	‘most	of	the	big	shows	won’t	give	you	more	than	a	few
minutes	–	it’s	not	like	your	BBC.	“In	depth”	is	not	a	concept	they	understand.	During	that	time	remember
to	repeat	the	title	of	the	book	as	often	as	possible.’
Harry	began	to	turn	the	pages	of	his	tour	schedule.	Each	day	seemed	to	begin	in	a	new	city,	where	he
would	appear	on	an	early-morning	radio	show,	followed	by	countless	broadcast	and	print	interviews
before	dashing	off	to	the	airport.
‘Do	all	your	authors	get	this	kind	of	treatment?’
‘Certainly	not,’	said	Natalie,	the	hand	back	on	the	leg	again.	‘Which	brings	me	to	the	biggest	problem
we	have	with	you.’
‘You	have	a	problem	with	me?’
‘We	sure	do.	Most	of	the	interviewers	will	want	to	ask	you	about	your	time	in	prison,	and	how	an
Englishman	came	to	win	the	Silver	Star,	but	you	must	always	switch	the	subject	back	to	the	book.’
‘In	England,	that	would	be	considered	rather	vulgar.’
‘In	America,	vulgar	is	what	gets	you	on	to	the	bestseller	list.’
‘But	won’t	the	interviewers	want	to	talk	about	the	book?’
‘Harry,	you	must	assume	that	none	of	them	will	have	read	it.	A	dozen	new	novels	land	on	their	desks
every	day,	so	you’ll	be	lucky	if	they’ve	read	more	than	the	title.	It’ll	be	a	bonus	if	they	even	remember
your	name.	They’ve	only	agreed	to	have	you	on	their	shows	because	you’re	an	ex-con	who	won	the	Silver
Star,	so	let’s	turn	that	to	our	advantage	and	plug	the	book	like	crazy,’	she	was	saying	as	the	limousine
drew	up	outside	the	Pierre	Hotel.
Harry	wished	he	was	back	in	England.
The	driver	leapt	out	and	opened	the	boot	as	a	hotel	porter	walked	across	to	the	car.	Natalie	led	Harry
into	the	hotel	and	across	the	lobby	to	the	reception	desk,	where	all	he	had	to	do	was	show	his	passport
and	sign	the	registration	form.	Natalie	appeared	to	have	prepared	the	way	of	the	Lord.
‘Welcome	to	the	Pierre,	Mr	Clifton,’	said	the	desk	clerk	as	he	handed	him	a	large	key.
‘I’ll	see	you	back	here	in	the	lobby	–’	Natalie	checked	her	watch	–	‘in	an	hour.	Then	the	limo	will	take
you	to	the	Harvard	Club	for	your	lunch	with	Mr	Guinzburg.’
‘Thank	you,’	said	Harry,	and	watched	as	she	walked	back	across	the	lobby	and	disappeared	through	the
revolving	doors	and	out	on	to	the	street.	He	couldn’t	help	noticing	that	he	wasn’t	the	only	man	whose	eyes
never	left	her.
A	porter	accompanied	him	to	the	eleventh	floor,	showed	him	into	his	suite	and	explained	how
everything	worked.	Harry	had	never	stayed	in	a	hotel	that	had	a	bath	and	a	shower.	He	decided	to	make
notes	so	he	could	tell	his	mother	all	about	it	when	he	returned	to	Bristol.	He	thanked	the	porter,	and	parted
with	the	only	dollar	he	had.
The	first	thing	Harry	did,	even	before	unpacking,	was	to	pick	up	the	phone	by	the	bed	and	place	a
person-to-person	call	to	Emma.
‘I’ll	call	you	back	in	around	fifteen	minutes,	sir,’	said	the	overseas	operator.
Harry	stayed	too	long	in	the	shower,	and	once	he	had	dried	himself	on	the	largest	towel	he’d	ever	seen,
he	had	only	just	started	to	unpack	when	the	phone	rang.
‘Your	overseas	call	is	on	the	line,	sir,’	said	the	operator.	The	next	voice	he	heard	was	Emma’s.
‘Is	that	you,	darling?	Can	you	hear	me?’
‘Sure	can,	honey,’	said	Harry,	smiling.
‘You	sound	like	an	American	already.	I	can’t	imagine	what	you’ll	be	like	after	three	weeks.’
‘Ready	to	come	back	to	Bristol	would	be	my	bet,	especially	if	the	book	doesn’t	get	on	to	the	bestseller
list.’‘And	if	it	doesn’t?’
‘I	may	be	coming	home	early.’
‘That	sounds	good	to	me.	So	where	are	you	calling	from?’
‘The	Pierre,	and	they’ve	put	me	in	the	biggest	hotel	room	I’ve	ever	seen.	The	bed	could	sleep	four.’
‘Just	make	sure	it	only	sleeps	one.’
‘It’s	got	air-conditioning,	and	a	radio	in	the	bathroom.	Mind	you,	I	still	haven’t	worked	out	how	to	turn
everything	on.	Or	off.’
‘You	should	have	taken	Seb	with	you.	He	would	have	mastered	it	by	now.’
‘Or	taken	it	apart	and	left	me	to	put	it	back	together	again.	But	how	is	the	boy?’
‘He’s	fine.	In	fact	he	seems	more	settled	without	a	nanny.’
‘That’s	a	relief.	And	how’s	your	search	for	Miss	J.	Smith	coming	along?’
‘Slowly,	but	I’ve	been	asked	to	go	for	an	interview	at	Dr	Barnardo’s	tomorrow	afternoon.’
‘That	sounds	promising.’
‘I’m	meeting	Mr	Mitchell	in	the	morning,	so	I	know	what	to	say	and,	perhaps	more	important,	what	not
to	say.’
‘You’ll	be	fine,	Emma.	Just	remember	it’s	their	responsibility	to	place	children	in	good	homes.	My	only
worry	is	how	Seb	will	react	when	he	finds	out	what	you’re	up	to.’
‘He	already	knows.	I	raised	the	subject	with	him	last	night	just	before	he	went	to	bed,	and	to	my
surprise	he	seemed	to	love	the	idea.	But	once	you	involve	Seb,	a	separate	problem	always	arises.’
‘What	is	it	this	time?’
‘He	expects	to	have	a	say	when	it	comes	to	who	we	pick.	The	good	news	is	that	he	wants	a	sister.’
‘That	could	still	be	tricky	if	he	takes	against	Miss	J.	Smith	and	sets	his	heart	on	someone	else.’
‘I	don’t	know	what	we’ll	do	if	that	happens.’
‘We’ll	just	have	to	convince	him	somehow	that	Jessica	was	his	choice.’
‘And	how	do	you	propose	we	do	that?’
‘I’ll	think	about	it.’
‘Just	remember	not	to	underestimate	him.	If	we	do,	it	could	easily	backfire.’
‘Let’s	talk	about	it	when	I	get	back,’	said	Harry.	‘Must	rush,	darling,	I	have	a	lunch	appointment	with
Harold	Guinzburg.’
‘Give	him	my	love,	and	remember,	he’s	another	man	you	can’t	afford	to	underestimate.	And	while
you’re	at	it,	don’t	forget	to	ask	him	what	happened	to—’
‘I	haven’t	forgotten.’
‘Good	luck,	darling,’	said	Emma,	‘and	just	make	sure	you	get	yourself	on	to	that	bestseller	list!’
‘You’re	worse	than	Natalie.’
‘Who’s	Natalie?’
‘A	ravishing	blonde	who	can’t	keep	her	hands	off	me.’
‘You’re	such	a	storyteller,	Harry	Clifton.’
Emma	was	among	the	first	to	arrive	at	the	university’s	lecture	theatre	that	evening	to	hear	Professor	Cyrus
Feldman	lecture	on	the	topic,	Having	won	the	War,	has	Britain	lost	the	peace?
She	slipped	into	a	place	at	the	end	of	a	row	of	raked	seats	about	halfway	back.	Long	before	the
appointed	hour	the	room	was	so	packed	that	latecomers	had	to	sit	on	the	gangway	steps,	with	one	or	two
even	perched	on	windowsills.
The	audience	burst	into	applause	the	moment	the	double	Pulitzer	Prize-winner	entered	the	auditorium,
accompanied	by	the	university’s	vice	chancellor.	Once	everyone	had	resumed	their	places,	Sir	PhilipMorris	introduced	his	guest,	giving	a	potted	history	of	Feldman’s	distinguished	career,	from	his	student
days	at	Princeton,	to	being	appointed	the	youngest	professor	at	Stanford,	to	the	second	Pulitzer	Prize	he’d
been	awarded	the	previous	year.	This	was	followed	by	another	prolonged	round	of	applause.	Professor
Feldman	rose	from	his	place	and	made	his	way	to	the	podium.
The	first	thing	that	struck	Emma	about	Cyrus	Feldman,	even	before	he	began	to	speak,	was	how
handsome	the	man	was,	something	Grace	had	omitted	to	mention	when	she’d	called.	He	must	have	been	a
shade	over	six	foot,	with	a	head	of	thick	grey	hair,	and	his	suntanned	face	reminded	everyone	which
university	he	taught	at.	His	athletic	build	belied	his	age,	and	suggested	he	must	spend	almost	as	many
hours	in	the	gym	as	in	the	library.
The	second	he	began	to	speak,	Emma	was	captivated	by	Feldman’s	raw	energy,	and	within	moments	he
had	everyone	in	the	auditorium	sitting	on	the	edge	of	their	seats.	Students	began	furiously	writing	down
his	every	word,	and	Emma	regretted	not	bringing	a	notepad	and	pen	along	with	her.
Speaking	without	notes,	the	professor	nimbly	switched	from	subject	to	subject:	the	role	of	Wall	Street
after	the	war,	the	dollar	as	the	new	world	currency,	oil	becoming	the	commodity	that	would	dominate	the
second	half	of	the	century	and	possibly	beyond,	the	future	role	of	the	International	Monetary	Fund,	and
whether	America	would	remain	fixed	to	the	gold	standard.
When	his	lecture	came	to	an	end,	Emma’s	only	regret	was	that	he’d	scarcely	touched	on	transport,	with
just	a	passing	mention	of	how	the	aeroplane	would	change	the	new	world	order,	both	for	business	and
tourism.	But	like	a	seasoned	pro,	he	reminded	his	audience	that	he’d	written	a	book	on	the	subject.	Emma
wouldn’t	be	waiting	for	Christmas	to	get	hold	of	a	copy.	It	made	her	think	about	Harry,	and	hope	his	book
tour	was	going	as	well	in	America.
Once	she’d	purchased	a	copy	of	The	New	World	Order,	she	joined	a	long	queue	of	those	waiting	to
have	their	copies	signed.	She	had	nearly	completed	the	first	chapter	by	the	time	she	reached	the	front	of
the	line,	and	was	wondering	if	he	might	be	willing	to	spare	a	few	moments	to	expand	his	views	on	the
future	of	the	British	shipping	industry.
She	placed	the	book	on	the	table	in	front	of	him,	and	he	gave	her	a	friendly	smile.
‘Who	shall	I	make	it	out	to?’
She	decided	to	take	a	chance.	‘Emma	Barrington.’
He	took	a	closer	look	at	her.	‘You	wouldn’t	by	any	chance	be	related	to	the	late	Sir	Walter	Barrington?’
‘He	was	my	grandfather,’	she	said	proudly.
‘I	heard	him	lecture	many	years	ago	on	the	role	of	the	shipping	industry	should	America	enter	the	First
World	War.	I	was	a	student	at	the	time,	and	he	taught	me	more	in	one	hour	than	my	tutors	had	managed	in	a
whole	semester.’
‘He	taught	me	a	lot	too,’	said	Emma,	returning	his	smile.
‘There	was	so	much	I	wanted	to	ask	him,’	added	Feldman,	‘but	he	had	to	catch	the	train	back	to
Washington	that	night,	so	I	never	saw	him	again.’
‘And	there’s	so	much	I	want	to	ask	you,’	said	Emma.	‘In	fact,	“need”	would	be	more	accurate.’
Feldman	glanced	at	the	waiting	queue.	‘I	guess	this	shouldn’t	take	me	more	than	another	half	hour,	and
as	I’m	not	catching	the	train	back	to	Washington	tonight,	perhaps	we	could	have	a	private	chat	before	I
leave,	Miss	Barrington?’4
‘A ND	HOW	IS 	my	beloved	Emma?’	asked	Harold	Guinzburg	after	he’d	welcomed	Harry	to	the	Harvard
Club.
‘I’ve	just	spoken	to	her	on	the	phone,’	said	Harry.	‘She	sends	her	love,	and	was	disappointed	that	she
wasn’t	able	to	join	us.’
‘Me	too.	Please	tell	her	I	won’t	accept	any	excuses	next	time.’	Guinzburg	guided	his	guest	through	to
the	dining	room	and	they	took	their	seats	at	what	was	clearly	his	usual	corner	table.	‘I	hope	you’re	finding
the	Pierre	to	your	liking,’	he	said	as	a	waiter	handed	them	both	menus.
‘It	would	be	fine,	if	only	I	knew	how	to	turn	the	shower	off.’
Guinzburg	laughed.	‘Perhaps	you	should	ask	Miss	Redwood	to	come	to	your	rescue.’
‘If	she	did,	I’m	not	sure	I’d	know	how	to	turn	her	off.’
‘Ah,	so	she’s	already	subjected	you	to	her	lecture	on	the	importance	of	getting	Nothing	Ventured	on	to
the	bestseller	list	as	quickly	as	possible.’
‘A	formidable	lady.’
‘That’s	why	I	made	her	a	director,’	said	Guinzburg,	‘despite	protests	from	several	directors	who	didn’t
want	a	woman	on	the	board.’
‘Emma	would	be	proud	of	you,’	said	Harry,	‘and	I	can	assure	you	that	Miss	Redwood	has	warned	me
of	the	consequences	should	I	fail.’
‘That	sounds	like	Natalie.	And	remember,	she	alone	decides	if	you	return	home	by	plane	or	row	boat.’
Harry	would	have	laughed,	but	he	wasn’t	sure	his	publisher	was	joking.
‘I	would	have	invited	her	to	join	us	for	lunch,’	said	Guinzburg,	‘but	as	you	may	have	observed,	the
Harvard	Club	does	not	allow	women	on	the	premises	–	don’t	tell	Emma.’
‘I	have	a	feeling	you’ll	see	women	dining	in	the	Harvard	Club	long	before	you	spot	one	in	any
gentlemen’s	club	on	Pall	Mall	or	St	James’s.’
‘Before	we	talk	about	the	tour,’	said	Guinzburg,	‘I	want	to	hear	everything	you	and	Emma	have	been	up
to	since	she	left	New	York.	How	did	you	win	the	Silver	Star?	Has	Emma	got	a	job?	How	did	Sebastian
react	to	meeting	his	father	for	the	first	time?	And—’
‘And	Emma	insisted	that	I	don’t	go	back	to	England	without	finding	out	what’s	happened	to	Sefton
Jelks.’
‘Shall	we	order	first?	I	don’t	care	to	think	about	Sefton	Jelks	on	an	empty	stomach.’
‘I	may	not	be	catching	the	train	to	Washington,	but	I’m	afraid	I	do	have	to	get	back	to	London	tonight,	Miss
Barrington,’	said	Professor	Feldman	after	he’d	signed	the	last	book.	‘I’m	addressing	the	London	School	of
Economics	at	ten	tomorrow	morning,	so	I	can	only	spare	you	a	few	minutes.’Emma	tried	not	to	look	disappointed.
‘Unless	.	.	.’	said	Feldman.
‘Unless?’
‘Unless	you’d	like	to	join	me	on	the	journey	to	London,	in	which	case	you’d	have	my	undivided
attention	for	at	least	a	couple	of	hours.’
Emma	hesitated.	‘I’ll	have	to	make	a	phone	call.’
Twenty	minutes	later,	she	was	sitting	in	a	first-class	railway	carriage	opposite	Professor	Feldman.	He
asked	the	first	question.
‘So,	Miss	Barrington,	does	your	family	still	own	the	shipping	line	that	bears	their	illustrious	name?’
‘Yes,	my	mother	owns	twenty-two	per	cent.’
‘That	should	give	the	family	more	than	enough	control,	and	that’s	all	that	matters	in	any	organization	–
as	long	as	no	one	else	gets	their	hands	on	more	than	twenty-two	per	cent.’
‘My	brother	Giles	doesn’t	take	a	great	deal	of	interest	in	the	company’s	affairs.	He’s	a	Member	of
Parliament	and	doesn’t	even	attend	the	AGM.	But	I	do,	professor,	which	is	why	I	needed	to	speak	to	you.’
‘Please	call	me	Cyrus.	I’ve	reached	that	age	when	I	don’t	want	to	be	reminded	by	a	beautiful	young
woman	just	how	old	I	am.’
Grace	had	been	right	about	one	thing,	thought	Emma,	and	decided	to	take	advantage	of	it.	She	returned
his	smile	before	asking,	‘What	problems	do	you	envisage	for	the	shipbuilding	industry	during	the	next
decade?	Our	new	chairman,	Sir	William	Travers—’
‘First-class	man.	Cunard	were	foolish	to	let	such	an	able	fellow	go,’	interrupted	Feldman.
‘Sir	William	is	considering	whether	we	should	add	a	new	passenger	liner	to	our	fleet.’
‘Madness!’	said	Feldman,	thumping	the	seat	beside	him	with	a	clenched	fist,	causing	a	cloud	of	dust	to
billow	up	into	the	air.	Before	Emma	could	ask	why,	he	added,	‘Unless	you	have	a	surplus	of	cash	that	you
need	to	dispose	of,	or	there	are	tax	advantages	for	the	UK	shipping	industry	that	no	one’s	told	me	about.’
‘Neither,	that	I’m	aware	of,’	said	Emma.
‘Then	it’s	time	for	you	to	face	the	facts.	The	aeroplane	is	about	to	turn	passenger	ships	into	floating
dinosaurs.	Why	would	any	sane	person	take	five	days	crossing	the	Atlantic	Ocean,	when	they	can	do	the
same	journey	in	eighteen	hours	by	plane?’
‘More	relaxing?	Fear	of	flying?	You’ll	arrive	in	better	shape?’	suggested	Emma,	recalling	Sir
William’s	words	at	the	AGM.
‘Out	of	touch	and	out	of	date,	young	lady,’	said	Feldman.	‘You’ll	have	to	come	up	with	something	better
than	that	if	you’re	going	to	convince	me.	No,	the	truth	is	that	the	modern	businessman,	and	even	the	more
adventurous	tourist,	wants	to	cut	down	on	the	time	it	takes	to	reach	their	destination,	which	in	a	very	few
years	will	sink,	and	I	mean	sink,	the	passenger	liner	business.’
‘And	in	the	long	term?’
‘You	haven’t	got	that	long.’
‘So	what	do	you	recommend	we	do?’
‘Invest	any	spare	cash	you	have	in	building	more	cargo	vessels.	Planes	will	never	be	able	to	carry
large	or	heavy	items	like	motor	cars,	plant	machinery	or	even	food.’
‘How	do	I	convince	Sir	William	of	that?’
‘Make	your	position	clear	at	the	next	board	meeting,’	said	Feldman,	his	fist	once	again	banging	on	the
seat.
‘But	I’m	not	on	the	board.’
‘You’re	not	on	the	board?’
‘No,	and	I	can’t	see	Barrington’s	ever	appointing	a	woman	director.’
‘They	don’t	have	any	choice,’	said	Feldman,	his	voice	rising.	‘Your	mother	owns	twenty-two	per	cent
of	the	company’s	stock.	You	can	demand	a	place	on	the	board.’‘But	I’m	not	qualified,	and	a	two-hour	train	journey	to	London,	even	if	it	is	with	a	Pulitzer	Prize-
winner,	isn’t	going	to	solve	that	problem.’
‘Then	it’s	time	to	get	qualified.’
‘What	do	you	have	in	mind?’	asked	Emma.	‘Because	there	isn’t	a	university	in	England	that	I’m	aware
of	that	has	a	business	degree	on	its	curriculum.’
‘Then	you’ll	have	to	take	three	years	off	and	join	me	at	Stanford.’
‘I	don’t	think	my	husband	or	my	young	son	would	think	much	of	that	idea,’	replied	Emma,	breaking	her
cover.
This	silenced	the	professor,	and	it	was	some	time	before	he	said,	‘Can	you	afford	a	ten-cent	stamp?’
‘Yes,’	said	Emma	tentatively,	not	sure	what	she	was	letting	herself	in	for.
‘Then	I’ll	be	happy	to	enrol	you	as	an	undergraduate	at	Stanford	in	the	fall.’
‘But	as	I	explained—’
‘You	stated,	without	reservation,	that	you	could	afford	a	ten-cent	stamp.’
Emma	nodded.
‘Well,	Congress	has	just	passed	a	bill	that	will	allow	American	military	who	are	serving	overseas	to
sign	up	for	a	business	degree	without	actually	having	to	attend	classes	in	person.’
‘But	I’m	not	an	American,	and	I’m	certainly	not	serving	overseas.’
‘True,’	said	Feldman,	‘but	hidden	in	the	bill’s	small	print	you’ll	find,	under	special	exemptions,	the
word	“Allies”,	which	I’m	pretty	sure	we	can	take	advantage	of.	That	is,	assuming	you’re	serious	about	the
long-term	future	of	your	family’s	company.’
‘Yes,	I	am,’	said	Emma.	‘But	what	will	you	expect	of	me?’
‘Once	I’ve	registered	you	as	an	undergraduate	at	Stanford,	I’ll	send	you	a	course	reading	list	for	your
freshman	year,	along	with	tape-recordings	of	every	lecture	I	give.	On	top	of	that,	I’ll	set	you	an	essay	to
write	each	week,	and	return	it	to	you	once	I’ve	marked	it.	And	if	you	can	afford	more	than	ten	cents,	we
could	even	talk	on	the	phone	from	time	to	time.’
‘When	do	I	start?’
‘This	fall,	but	be	warned,	there	are	assessment	tests	every	quarter	that	decide	if	you	should	be	allowed
to	continue	on	the	course,’	he	was	saying	as	the	train	pulled	into	Paddington	station.	‘If	you’re	not	up	to	it,
you’ll	be	dropped.’
‘You’re	willing	to	do	all	that	because	of	one	meeting	with	my	grandfather?’
‘Well,	I	confess	I	was	rather	hoping	you	might	join	me	for	dinner	at	the	Savoy	tonight	so	we	can	talk
about	the	future	of	the	shipbuilding	industry	in	greater	detail.’
‘What	a	nice	idea,’	said	Emma,	giving	him	a	kiss	on	his	cheek.	‘But	I’m	afraid	I	bought	a	return	ticket,
and	I’ll	be	going	home	to	my	husband	tonight.’
Even	if	Harry	still	couldn’t	work	out	how	to	turn	on	the	radio,	at	least	he’d	mastered	the	hot	and	cold	taps
in	the	shower.	Once	he	was	dry,	he	selected	a	freshly	ironed	shirt,	a	silk	tie	Emma	had	given	him	for	his
birthday,	and	a	suit	his	mother	would	have	described	as	Sunday	best.	A	glance	in	the	mirror,	and	he	had	to
admit	he	wouldn’t	have	been	considered	in	vogue	on	either	side	of	the	Atlantic.
Harry	stepped	out	of	the	Pierre	on	to	5th	Avenue	just	before	eight	and	began	walking	towards	64th	and
Park.	It	only	took	him	a	few	minutes	before	he	was	standing	outside	a	magnificent	brownstone	house.	He
checked	his	watch,	wondering	what	was	fashionably	late	in	New	York.	He	recalled	Emma	telling	him
she’d	been	so	nervous	at	the	thought	of	meeting	Great-aunt	Phyllis	that	she’d	walked	around	the	block
before	summoning	up	enough	courage	to	climb	the	steps	to	the	front	door,	and	even	then	she	only	managed
to	press	the	bell	marked	‘Tradesmen’.Harry	marched	up	the	steps	and	banged	firmly	with	the	heavy	brass	knocker.	As	he	waited	for	the	door
to	be	answered,	he	could	hear	Emma	remonstrating	with	him	–	Don’t	mock,	child.
The	door	opened	and	a	butler	wearing	a	tailcoat,	who	was	clearly	expecting	him,	said,	‘Good	evening,
Mr	Clifton.	Mrs	Stuart	is	waiting	for	you	in	the	drawing	room.	Would	you	care	to	follow	me?’
‘Good	evening,	Parker,’	Harry	replied,	although	he’d	never	seen	the	man	before.	Harry	thought	he
detected	the	flicker	of	a	smile	as	the	butler	led	him	down	the	corridor	to	an	open	lift.	Once	he’d	stepped
inside,	Parker	closed	the	grille,	pressed	a	button	and	didn’t	speak	again	until	they	reached	the	third	floor.
He	pulled	open	the	gate,	preceded	Harry	into	the	drawing	room	and	announced,	‘Mr	Harry	Clifton,
madam.’
A	tall,	elegantly	dressed	woman	was	standing	in	the	middle	of	the	room,	chatting	to	a	man	Harry
assumed	must	be	her	son.
Great-aunt	Phyllis	immediately	broke	away,	walked	across	to	Harry	and,	without	a	word,	gave	him	a
bear	hug	that	would	have	impressed	an	American	linebacker.	When	she	finally	released	him,	she
introduced	her	son	Alistair,	who	shook	Harry	warmly	by	the	hand.
‘It’s	an	honour	to	meet	the	man	who	ended	Sefton	Jelks’s	career,’	said	Harry.
Alistair	offered	a	slight	bow.
‘I	also	played	a	small	part	in	that	man’s	downfall,’	sniffed	Phyllis,	as	Parker	handed	her	guest	a	glass
of	sherry.	‘But	don’t	get	me	started	on	Jelks,’	she	added,	as	she	ushered	Harry	towards	a	comfortable
chair	by	the	fire,	‘because	I’m	far	more	interested	to	hear	about	Emma,	and	what	she’s	been	up	to.’
Harry	took	some	time	bringing	Great-aunt	Phyllis	up	to	date	on	everything	Emma	had	done	since	she’d
left	New	York,	not	least	because	she	and	Alistair	kept	interrupting	him	with	questions.	It	wasn’t	until	the
butler	returned	to	announce	dinner	was	served	that	they	moved	on	to	a	different	subject.
‘So	how	are	you	enjoying	your	visit?’	asked	Alistair	as	they	took	their	seats	round	the	dining	table.
‘I	think	I	preferred	being	arrested	for	murder,’	said	Harry.	‘Far	easier	to	deal	with.’
‘That	bad?’
‘Worse	in	some	ways.	You	see,	I’m	not	much	good	at	selling	myself,’	admitted	Harry	as	a	maid	placed
a	bowl	of	Scotch	broth	in	front	of	him.	‘I’d	rather	hoped	the	book	might	speak	for	itself.’
‘Think	again,’	said	Great-aunt	Phyllis.	‘Just	remember,	New	York	isn’t	an	offshoot	of	Bloomsbury.
Forget	refinement,	understatement	and	irony.	However	much	it’s	against	your	better	nature,	you’ll	have	to
learn	to	sell	your	wares	like	an	East	End	barrow	boy.’
‘I’m	proud	to	be	England’s	most	successful	author,’	said	Alistair,	raising	his	voice.
‘But	I’m	not,’	said	Harry,	‘by	a	long	chalk.’
‘I’ve	been	overwhelmed	by	the	American	people’s	reaction	to	Nothing	Ventured,’	said	Phyllis,	joining
in	the	charade.
‘That’s	only	because	no	one’s	read	it,’	protested	Harry,	between	mouthfuls.
‘Like	Dickens,	Conan	Doyle	and	Wilde,	I’m	confident	the	United	States	will	turn	out	to	be	my	biggest
market,’	added	Alistair.
‘I	sell	more	books	in	Market	Harborough	than	I	do	in	New	York,’	Harry	said	as	his	soup	bowl	was
whisked	away.	‘It’s	patently	obvious	that	Aunt	Phyllis	ought	to	take	my	place	on	the	book	tour,	and	I
should	be	sent	back	to	England.’
‘I	would	be	only	too	delighted	to	do	so,’	said	Phyllis.	‘It’s	just	a	pity	I	don’t	have	your	talent,’	she
added	wistfully.
Harry	helped	himself	to	a	slice	of	roast	beef	and	far	too	many	potatoes,	and	it	wasn’t	long	before	he
began	to	relax	as	Phyllis	and	Alistair	regaled	him	with	tales	of	Emma’s	exploits	when	she’d	turned	up	in
New	York	in	search	of	him.	It	amused	him	to	hear	their	version	of	what	had	taken	place,	and	only	served
to	remind	him	just	how	lucky	he’d	been	to	end	up	sleeping	in	the	next	bed	to	Giles	Barrington	when	he
first	went	to	St	Bede’s.	And	if	he	hadn’t	been	invited	to	tea	at	the	Manor	House	to	celebrate	Giles’sbirthday,	he	might	never	have	met	Emma.	Not	that	he’d	even	glanced	at	her	at	the	time.
‘You	do	realize	you’ll	never	be	good	enough	for	her,’	said	Phyllis	as	she	lit	a	cheroot.
Harry	nodded,	appreciating	for	the	first	time	why	this	indomitable	lady	had	turned	out	to	be	Emma’s
Old	Jack.	If	they	had	sent	her	off	to	war,	he	thought,	Great-aunt	Phyllis	would	surely	have	come	home	with
the	Silver	Star.
When	the	clock	struck	eleven,	Harry,	who	might	have	had	one	brandy	too	many,	rose	unsteadily	from
his	chair.	He	didn’t	need	reminding	that	at	six	the	next	morning	Natalie	would	be	standing	in	the	hotel
lobby,	waiting	to	whisk	him	off	for	his	first	radio	interview	of	the	day.	He	thanked	his	hostess	for	a
memorable	evening,	and	for	his	trouble	received	another	bear	hug.
‘Now,	don’t	forget,’	she	said,	‘whenever	you’re	interviewed,	think	British,	act	Yiddish.	And	if	you
ever	need	a	shoulder	to	cry	on,	or	a	half-decent	meal,	just	like	the	Windmill	Theatre	we	never	close.’
‘Thank	you,’	said	Harry.
‘And	when	you	next	speak	to	Emma,’	said	Alistair,	‘do	remember	to	send	our	love,	and	be	sure	to
chastise	her	for	not	accompanying	you	on	this	trip.’
Harry	decided	this	wasn’t	the	moment	to	tell	them	about	Sebastian	and	what	the	doctors	described	as
his	hyper-active	problem.
The	three	of	them	somehow	squeezed	into	the	lift,	and	Harry	received	one	last	hug	from	Phyllis,	before
Parker	opened	the	front	door	and	he	was	cast	back	on	to	the	streets	of	Manhattan.
‘Oh	hell,’	he	said	after	he’d	walked	a	short	way	down	Park	Avenue.	He	turned	and	ran	back	to
Phyllis’s	house,	up	the	steps	and	banged	on	the	front	door.	The	butler	didn’t	appear	quite	as	quickly	this
time.
‘I	need	to	see	Mrs	Stuart	urgently,’	said	Harry.	‘I	hope	she	hasn’t	gone	to	bed.’
‘Not	that	I’m	aware	of,	sir,’	said	Parker.	‘Please,	follow	me.’	He	led	Harry	back	down	the	corridor	and
into	the	lift	where	once	again	he	pressed	the	button	for	the	third	floor.
Phyllis	was	standing	by	the	mantelpiece	puffing	away	on	her	cheroot	when	Harry	made	his	second
entrance.	It	was	her	turn	to	look	surprised.
‘I’m	so	sorry,’	he	said,	‘but	Emma	will	never	forgive	me	if	I	return	to	England	without	discovering
what’s	happened	to	that	lawyer	who	foolishly	underestimated	her.’
‘Sefton	Jelks,’	said	Alistair,	looking	up	from	his	seat	by	the	fire.	‘The	damn	man	finally	resigned	as
senior	partner	of	Jelks,	Myers	and	Abernathy,	albeit	somewhat	reluctantly.’
‘Shortly	afterwards,	he	disappeared	off	to	Minnesota,’	added	Phyllis.
‘And	he	won’t	be	returning	in	the	near	future,’	said	Alistair,	‘as	he	died	some	months	ago.’
‘My	son	is	a	typical	lawyer,’	said	Phyllis,	stubbing	out	her	cheroot.	‘He	only	ever	tells	you	half	the
story.	Jelks’s	first	heart	attack	warranted	a	small	mention	in	the	New	York	Times,	and	it	was	only	after	the
third	that	he	received	a	short	and	not	very	flattering	paragraph	at	the	bottom	of	the	obituary	page.’
‘Which	was	more	than	he	deserved,’	said	Alistair.
‘I	agree,’	said	Phyllis.	‘Although	it	gave	me	considerable	pleasure	to	discover	that	only	four	people
attended	his	funeral.’
‘How	do	you	know	that?’	asked	Alistair.
‘Because	I	was	one	of	them,’	said	Phyllis.
‘You	travelled	all	the	way	to	Minnesota	just	to	attend	Sefton	Jelks’s	funeral?’	said	Harry	in	disbelief.
‘I	most	certainly	did.’
‘But	why?’	demanded	Alistair.
‘You	could	never	trust	Sefton	Jelks,’	she	explained.	‘I	wouldn’t	have	been	truly	convinced	he	was	dead
until	I’d	seen	his	coffin	being	lowered	into	the	ground,	and	even	then	I	waited	until	the	gravediggers	had
filled	in	the	hole.’‘Please	have	a	seat,	Mrs	Clifton.’
‘Thank	you,’	said	Emma	as	she	sat	down	on	a	wooden	chair	and	faced	the	three	governors,	who	were
in	comfortable	seats	behind	a	long	table	on	a	raised	dais.
‘My	name	is	David	Slater,’	said	the	man	in	the	centre,	‘and	I’ll	be	chairing	this	afternoon’s	meeting.
Allow	me	to	introduce	my	colleagues,	Miss	Braithwaite	and	Mr	Needham.’
Emma	tried	to	make	a	rapid	assessment	of	the	three	invigilators	she	was	facing.	The	chairman	wore	a
three-piece	suit,	an	old	school	tie	she	recognized,	and	looked	as	if	this	wasn’t	the	only	board	he	chaired.
Miss	Braithwaite,	who	sat	on	his	right,	was	dressed	in	a	pre-war	tweed	suit	and	thick	woollen	stockings.
Her	hair	was	done	up	in	a	bun,	leaving	Emma	in	no	doubt	that	she	was	a	spinster	of	this	parish,	and	the	set
of	her	lips	suggested	she	didn’t	smile	that	often.	The	gentleman	on	the	chairman’s	left	was	younger	than
his	two	colleagues,	and	reminded	Emma	that	it	was	not	so	long	ago	that	Britain	had	been	at	war.	His
bushy	moustache	suggested	the	RAF.
‘The	board	has	studied	your	application	with	interest,	Mrs	Clifton,’	began	the	chairman,	‘and	with	your
permission,	we	would	like	to	ask	you	a	few	questions.’
‘Yes,	of	course,’	said	Emma,	trying	to	relax.
‘How	long	have	you	been	considering	adoption,	Mrs	Clifton?’
‘Ever	since	I	realized	I	couldn’t	have	another	child,’	replied	Emma,	without	adding	any	details.	The
two	men	smiled	sympathetically,	but	Miss	Braithwaite	remained	po-faced.
‘You	state	on	your	application	form,’	continued	the	chairman,	looking	down	at	his	papers,	‘that	you
would	prefer	to	adopt	a	girl	aged	around	five	or	six.	Is	there	any	particular	reason	for	that?’
‘Yes,’	said	Emma.	‘My	son	Sebastian	is	an	only	child,	and	my	husband	and	I	felt	it	would	be	good	for
him	to	be	brought	up	with	someone	who	hasn’t	had	all	the	advantages	and	privileges	he	has	taken	for
granted	since	birth.’	She	hoped	her	reply	hadn’t	sounded	too	rehearsed,	and	could	have	sworn	the
chairman	placed	a	tick	in	a	box.
‘Can	we	assume	from	your	answer,’	said	the	chairman,	‘that	there	are	no	financial	restrictions	that
might	hinder	you	bringing	up	a	second	child?’
‘None	whatsoever,	Mr	Chairman.	My	husband	and	I	are	comfortably	off.’	Emma	noticed	this	elicited
another	tick.
‘I	only	have	one	more	question,’	said	the	chairman.	‘You	stated	in	your	application	that	you	would
consider	a	child	from	any	religious	background.	May	I	ask	if	you	are	affiliated	to	any	particular	church?’
‘Like	Dr	Barnardo,’	said	Emma,	‘I	am	a	Christian.	My	husband	was	a	choral	scholar	at	St	Mary
Redcliffe.’	Looking	directly	at	the	chairman,	she	added,	‘Before	he	went	on	to	Bristol	Grammar	School,
where	he	ended	up	as	the	senior	chorister.	I	was	educated	at	Red	Maids’	School,	before	winning	a
scholarship	to	Oxford.’
The	chairman	touched	his	tie,	and	Emma	felt	things	couldn’t	be	going	much	better,	until	Miss
Braithwaite	tapped	her	pencil	on	the	table.	The	chairman	nodded	in	her	direction.
‘You	mentioned	your	husband,	Mrs	Clifton.	May	I	enquire	why	he	isn’t	with	you	today?’
‘He’s	in	the	United	States	on	a	book	tour.	He’ll	be	returning	in	a	couple	of	weeks’	time.’
‘Is	he	often	away?’
‘No.	Very	rarely	in	fact.	My	husband	is	a	writer	by	profession,	so	he’s	at	home	most	of	the	time.’
‘But	he	must	need	to	visit	a	library	occasionally,’	suggested	Miss	Braithwaite,	with	what	might	have
passed	as	a	smile.
‘No,	we	have	our	own	library,’	said	Emma,	regretting	the	words	the	moment	she’d	uttered	them.
‘And	do	you	work?’	Miss	Braithwaite	asked,	making	it	sound	like	a	crime.
‘No,	although	I	assist	my	husband	in	any	way	I	can.	However,	I	consider	being	a	wife	and	mother	afull-time	job.’	Although	Harry	had	recommended	this	line,	he	knew	only	too	well	that	Emma	didn’t
believe	it,	and	she	now	believed	it	even	less	after	meeting	Cyrus	Feldman.
‘And	how	long	have	you	been	married,	Mrs	Clifton?’	persisted	Miss	Braithwaite.
‘Just	over	three	years.’
‘But	I	see	from	your	application	form	that	your	son	Sebastian	is	eight	years	old.’
‘Yes,	he	is.	Harry	and	I	were	engaged	in	1939,	but	he	felt	it	was	his	duty	to	sign	up	even	before	war
had	been	declared.’
Miss	Braithwaite	was	about	to	ask	another	question,	when	the	man	on	the	chairman’s	left	leant	forward
and	said,	‘So	you	were	married	soon	after	the	war	ended,	Mrs	Clifton?’
‘Sadly	not,’	said	Emma,	looking	at	a	man	who	only	had	one	arm.	‘My	husband	was	badly	wounded	by	a
German	landmine	only	days	before	the	war	ended,	and	it	was	some	time	before	he	was	fit	enough	to	be
discharged	from	hospital.’
Miss	Braithwaite	still	appeared	unmoved.	Emma	wondered,	could	it	be	possible	that	.	.	.	she	decided
to	take	a	risk	she	knew	Harry	would	not	have	approved	of.
‘But,	Mr	Needham,’	she	said,	her	eyes	not	leaving	the	man	with	one	arm,	‘I	consider	myself	to	be
among	the	lucky	ones.	My	heart	goes	out	to	those	women	whose	husbands,	fiancés	and	sweethearts	did	not
return	to	their	families,	having	made	the	ultimate	sacrifice	for	their	country.’
Miss	Braithwaite	bowed	her	head,	and	the	chairman	said,	‘Thank	you,	Mrs	Clifton.	Someone	will	be	in
touch	with	you	in	the	near	future.’5
N ATALIE	WAS	STANDING 	in	the	lobby	waiting	for	him	at	6	a.m.	She	looked	just	as	crisp	and	perky	as	she	had
done	when	she’d	left	him	the	day	before.	Once	they	were	seated	in	the	back	of	the	limousine,	she	opened
the	inevitable	folder.
‘You	begin	the	day	being	interviewed	by	Matt	Jacobs	on	NBC,	the	highest-rated	breakfast	show	in	the
country.	The	good	news	is	that	you’ve	been	given	the	prime	slot,	which	means	you’ll	be	on	some	time
between	seven	forty	and	eight	a.m.	The	not-so-good	news	is	that	you’re	sharing	it	with	Clark	Gable,	and
Mel	Blanc,	the	voice	of	Bugs	Bunny	and	Tweetie	Pie.	Gable’s	promoting	his	latest	movie,	Homecoming,
in	which	he	stars	alongside	Lana	Turner.’
‘And	Mel	Blanc?’	said	Harry,	trying	not	to	laugh.
‘He’s	celebrating	a	decade	with	Warner	Brothers.	Now,	taking	into	account	sponsors’	breaks,	I	estimate
you’ll	be	on	air	for	four	to	five	minutes,	which	you	must	think	of	as	240	to	300	seconds.	I	cannot	stress
enough,’	continued	Natalie,	‘how	important	this	show	is	for	launching	our	whole	campaign.	You	won’t	be
doing	anything	bigger	in	the	next	three	weeks.	This	could	not	only	get	you	on	to	the	bestseller	list	but,	if	it
goes	well,	every	major	show	across	the	country	will	want	to	book	you.’
Harry	could	feel	his	heartbeat	rising	by	the	second.
‘All	you	have	to	do	is	find	any	excuse	to	mention	Nothing	Ventured,’	she	added	as	the	limousine	drew
up	outside	the	NBC	studios	at	the	Rockefeller	Center.
Harry	couldn’t	believe	the	sight	that	greeted	him	when	he	stepped	out	on	to	the	pavement.	The	narrow
entrance	that	led	to	the	front	of	the	building	had	been	fenced	off	and	was	crammed	on	both	sides	with
screaming	fans.	As	Harry	made	his	way	through	the	crowds	of	expectant	onlookers,	he	didn’t	need	to	be
told	that	90	per	cent	of	them	had	come	to	see	Clark	Gable,	9	per	cent	Mel	Blanc,	and	possibly	1	per	cent	.
.	.
‘Who’s	he?’	someone	shouted	as	Harry	hurried	past.
Perhaps	not	even	1	per	cent.
Once	he	was	safely	inside	the	building,	a	floor	walker	escorted	him	to	the	green	room	and	briefed	him
on	timings.
‘Mr	Gable	will	be	on	at	seven	forty.	Mel	Blanc	will	follow	him	at	seven	fifty,	and	we’re	hoping	to	get
you	on	by	seven	fifty-five	in	the	run-up	to	the	news.’
‘Thank	you,’	said	Harry	as	he	took	a	seat	and	tried	to	compose	himself.
Mel	Blanc	bounced	into	the	green	room	at	7.30,	and	looked	at	Harry	as	if	he	was	expecting	to	be	asked
for	an	autograph.	Mr	Gable,	accompanied	by	his	entourage,	followed	a	few	moments	later.	Harry	was
surprised	to	see	the	screen	idol	dressed	in	a	dinner	jacket	and	carrying	a	glass	of	whisky.	Gable	explained
to	Mel	Blanc	that	it	wasn’t	an	early	morning	drink,	because	he	hadn’t	been	to	bed.	Laughter	followed	him
as	he	was	whisked	away,	and	Harry	was	left	alone	with	Mel.‘Listen	carefully	to	Gable,’	said	Mel	as	he	sat	down	next	to	Harry.	‘The	minute	the	red	light	goes	on,	no
one,	including	the	studio	audience,	will	realize	he’s	had	anything	to	drink	but	orange	juice,	and	by	the	time
he	comes	off,	everyone	will	want	to	see	his	new	movie.’
Mel	turned	out	to	be	right.	Gable	was	the	ultimate	professional,	and	the	title	of	his	new	film	got	a
mention	at	least	every	thirty	seconds.	And	although	Harry	had	read	somewhere	that	he	and	Miss	Turner
couldn’t	stand	each	other,	Gable	was	so	gracious	about	his	co-star	that	even	the	most	cynical	listener
would	have	been	convinced	they	were	bosom	pals.	Only	Natalie	didn’t	look	pleased,	because	Gable
overran	his	slot	by	forty-two	seconds.
During	the	ad	break,	Mel	was	escorted	up	to	the	studio.	Harry	learnt	a	great	deal	from	Mel’s
performance,	during	which	Sylvester,	Tweety	Pie	and	Bugs	Bunny	were	all	given	an	outing.	But	the	thing
that	most	impressed	him	was	that	when	Matt	Jacobs	asked	what	was	clearly	the	final	question,	Mel	just
went	on	talking,	and	stole	another	thirty-seven	seconds	of	his	precious	time.
During	the	next	ad	break,	it	was	Harry’s	turn	to	be	led	up	to	the	guillotine,	where	he	knew	his	head	was
about	to	be	removed.	He	sat	down	opposite	his	host	and	smiled	nervously.	Jacobs	was	studying	the	inside
flap	of	a	copy	of	Nothing	Ventured	that	looked	as	if	it	had	never	been	opened	before.	He	glanced	up	and
returned	Harry’s	smile.
‘When	the	red	light	goes	on,	you’ll	be	on	the	air,’	was	all	he	said	before	turning	to	the	first	page.	Harry
checked	the	second	hand	of	the	studio	clock:	four	minutes	to	eight.	He	listened	to	an	advertisement	for
Nescafé,	as	Jacobs	scribbled	down	a	couple	of	notes	on	a	pad	in	front	of	him.	The	ad	ended	with	a
familiar	jingle,	and	the	red	light	went	on.	Harry’s	mind	went	blank,	and	he	wished	he	was	at	home	having
lunch	with	Emma,	even	facing	a	thousand	Germans	at	Clemenceau	ridge,	rather	than	11	million	Americans
enjoying	their	breakfast.
‘Good	morning,’	said	Jacobs	into	his	microphone,	‘and	what	a	morning	it’s	been.	First	Gable,	then	Mel,
and	we	end	this	hour	of	the	breakfast	show	with	a	special	guest	from	Great	Britain,	Harry’	–	he	quickly
checked	the	book’s	cover	–	‘Clifton.	Now,	before	we	talk	about	your	new	book,	Harry,	can	I	confirm	that
the	last	time	you	set	foot	in	America	you	were	arrested	for	murder?’
‘Yes,	but	it	was	all	a	misunderstanding,’	spluttered	Harry.
‘That’s	what	they	all	say,’	said	Jacobs	with	a	disconcerting	laugh.	‘But	what	my	eleven	million
listeners	will	want	to	know	is,	while	you’re	here,	will	you	be	getting	together	with	some	of	your	old
convict	buddies?’
‘No,	that’s	not	the	reason	I’m	in	America,’	began	Harry.	‘I’ve	written	a—’
‘So	Harry,	tell	me	about	your	second	impression	of	America.’
‘It’s	a	great	country,’	said	Harry.	‘New	Yorkers	have	made	me	feel	so	welcome,	and—’
‘Even	the	cab	drivers?’
‘Even	the	cab	drivers,’	repeated	Harry,	‘and	this	morning	I	got	to	meet	Clark	Gable.’
‘Is	Gable	big	in	England?’	asked	Matt.
‘Oh	yes,	he’s	very	popular,	as	is	Miss	Turner.	In	fact	I	can’t	wait	to	see	their	new	film.’
‘We	call	them	movies	over	here,	Harry,	but	what	the	hell.’	Jacobs	paused,	glanced	up	at	the	second
hand	on	the	clock,	and	said,	‘Harry,	it’s	been	great	having	you	on	the	show,	and	good	luck	with	your	new
book.	After	a	few	words	from	our	sponsors,	we’ll	return	at	the	top	of	the	hour	with	the	eight	o’clock
news.	But	from	me,	Matt	Jacobs,	it’s	goodbye,	and	have	a	great	day.’
The	red	light	went	off.
Jacobs	stood	up,	shook	hands	with	Harry	and	said,	‘Sorry	we	didn’t	get	more	time	to	talk	about	your
book.	Loved	the	cover.’Emma	sipped	her	morning	coffee	before	opening	the	letter.
Dear	Mrs	Clifton,
Thank	you	for	attending	the	board	meeting	last	week.	I	am	pleased	to	inform	you	that	we	would	like	to
take	your	application	to	the	next	stage.
Emma	wanted	to	ring	Harry	immediately	but	knew	it	was	the	middle	of	the	night	in	America,	and	she
wasn’t	even	sure	which	city	he	was	in.
We	have	several	suitable	candidates	for	you	and	your	husband	to	consider,	a	number	of	whom	are
residing	in	our	homes	at	Taunton,	Exeter	and	Bridgwater.	I	will	be	happy	to	send	information	on	each
child,	if	you	would	be	kind	enough	to	let	me	know	which	home	you’d	prefer	to	visit	first.
Yours	sincerely,
Mr	David	Slater
One	call	to	Mitchell	confirmed	that	Jessica	Smith	was	still	at	Dr	Barnardo’s	in	Bridgwater,	but	was
hoping	to	be	amongst	those	going	to	Australia.	Emma	checked	her	watch.	She	would	have	to	wait	until
noon	before	Harry	could	be	expected	to	ring	and	she	could	tell	him	the	news.	She	then	turned	her	attention
to	a	second	letter	which	had	a	ten-cent	stamp	on	it.	She	didn’t	need	to	check	the	postmark	to	know	who
had	sent	it.
By	the	time	Harry	arrived	in	Chicago,	Nothing	Ventured	had	come	in	at	number	33	on	the	New	York	Times
bestseller	list,	and	Natalie	was	no	longer	placing	a	hand	on	his	leg.
‘No	need	to	panic,’	she	reassured	him.	‘The	second	week	is	always	the	most	important.	But	we’ve	got
a	lot	of	work	to	do	if	we’re	going	to	make	it	into	the	top	fifteen	by	next	Sunday.’
Denver,	Dallas	and	San	Francisco	took	them	almost	to	the	end	of	the	second	week,	by	which	time	Harry
was	convinced	that	Natalie	was	among	those	who	hadn’t	read	the	book.	Some	of	the	prime-time	shows
dropped	Harry	at	the	last	minute,	and	he	started	to	spend	more	and	more	of	his	time	in	smaller	and	smaller
book	stores	signing	fewer	and	fewer	copies.	One	or	two	proprietors	even	refused	to	let	him	do	that
because,	as	Natalie	explained,	they	couldn’t	return	signed	copies	to	the	publisher	as	they	were	considered
damaged	goods.
By	the	time	they	touched	down	in	Los	Angeles,	Nothing	Ventured	had	crept	up	to	number	28	on	the
bestseller	list	and,	with	only	a	week	to	go,	Natalie	couldn’t	mask	her	disappointment.	She	began	to	hint
that	the	book	just	wasn’t	moving	out	of	the	shops	fast	enough.	That	became	even	more	apparent	the
following	morning	when	Harry	came	down	to	breakfast	and	found	someone	called	Justin	sitting	opposite
him.
‘Natalie’s	flown	back	to	New	York	overnight,’	Justin	explained.	‘Had	to	meet	up	with	another	author.’
He	didn’t	need	to	add,	someone	who’s	more	likely	to	make	it	into	the	top	fifteen	of	the	bestseller	list.
Harry	couldn’t	blame	her.
During	his	final	week,	Harry	zigzagged	across	the	country,	appearing	on	shows	in	Seattle,	San	Diego,
Raleigh,	Miami	and	finally	Washington.	He	began	to	relax	without	Natalie	by	his	side	constantly
reminding	him	about	the	bestseller	list,	and	even	managed	to	mention	Nothing	Ventured	more	than	once
during	some	of	the	longer	interviews,	even	if	it	was	only	on	local	shows.
When	he	flew	back	into	New	York	on	the	final	day	of	the	tour,	Justin	checked	him	into	an	airport	motel,
handed	him	an	economy-class	ticket	for	London,	and	wished	him	luck.Once	Emma	had	filled	in	the	Stanford	application	form,	she	wrote	a	long	letter	to	Cyrus	to	thank	him	for
making	it	all	possible.	She	then	turned	her	attention	to	a	bulky	package	that	contained	profiles	of	Sophie
Barton,	Sandra	Davis	and	Jessica	Smith.	It	only	took	a	cursory	reading	for	her	to	realize	which	candidate
Matron	favoured,	and	it	certainly	wasn’t	Miss	J.	Smith.
What	would	happen	if	Sebastian	agreed	with	Matron	or,	worse,	decided	he	preferred	someone	who
wasn’t	even	on	the	shortlist?	Emma	lay	awake	wishing	Harry	would	call.
Harry	thought	about	calling	Emma,	but	assumed	she	would	already	have	gone	to	bed.	He	began	to	pack	so
everything	would	be	ready	for	the	early	morning	flight,	then	lay	down	on	the	bed	and	thought	about	how
they	could	convince	Sebastian	that	Jessica	Smith	was	not	only	the	ideal	girl	to	be	his	sister,	but	his	first
choice.
He	closed	his	eyes,	but	there	wasn’t	any	hope	of	snatching	even	a	moment’s	sleep	while	the	air-
conditioning	thumped	out	a	constant	rhythm	as	if	auditioning	for	a	place	in	a	Calypso	band.	Harry	lay	on
the	thin,	lumpy	mattress,	and	rested	his	head	on	a	foam	pillow	that	enveloped	his	ears.	There	certainly
wasn’t	a	choice	between	a	shower	and	a	bath,	just	a	washbasin	with	constantly	dripping	brown	water.	He
closed	his	eyes	and	reran	the	last	three	weeks,	frame	by	frame,	like	a	flickering	black	and	white	movie.
There	had	been	no	colour.	What	a	complete	waste	of	everyone’s	time	and	money	it	had	all	been.	Harry
had	to	admit	he	just	wasn’t	cut	out	for	the	author	tour,	and	if	he	couldn’t	even	get	the	book	into	the	top
fifteen	after	countless	radio	and	print	interviews,	perhaps	the	time	had	come	to	pension	off	William
Warwick	along	with	Chief	Inspector	Davenport	and	start	looking	for	a	real	job.
The	headmaster	of	St	Bede’s	had	hinted	quite	recently	that	they	were	looking	for	a	new	English	teacher,
although	Harry	knew	he	wasn’t	cut	out	to	be	a	schoolmaster.	Giles	had	graciously	suggested,	on	more	than
one	occasion,	that	he	should	join	the	board	of	Barrington’s	so	that	he	could	represent	the	family’s
interests.	But	the	truth	was,	he	wasn’t	family,	and	in	any	case,	he’d	always	wanted	to	be	a	writer,	not	a
businessman.
It	was	bad	enough	living	in	Barrington	Hall.	The	books	still	hadn’t	earned	enough	money	to	buy	a	house
worthy	of	Emma,	and	it	hadn’t	helped	when	Sebastian	had	asked	him	quite	innocently	why	he	didn’t	go
out	to	work	every	morning,	like	every	other	father	he	knew.	It	sometimes	made	him	feel	like	a	kept	man.
Harry	climbed	into	bed	just	after	midnight,	even	more	desperate	to	call	Emma	and	share	his	thoughts
with	her,	but	it	was	still	only	five	in	the	morning	in	Bristol,	so	he	decided	to	stay	awake	and	ring	her	in	a
couple	of	hours’	time.	He	was	just	about	to	turn	off	the	light	when	there	was	a	gentle	tap	on	the	door.	He
could	have	sworn	he’d	left	the	Do	Not	Disturb	sign	on	the	handle.	He	pulled	on	his	dressing	gown,
padded	across	the	room	and	opened	the	door.
‘Many	congratulations,’	was	all	she	said.
He	stared	at	Natalie,	who	was	holding	up	a	bottle	of	champagne	and	wearing	a	tight-fitting	dress	with	a
zip	down	the	front	that	didn’t	need	an	invitation	to	pull	it.
‘What	for?’	said	Harry.
‘I’ve	just	seen	the	first	edition	of	Sunday’s	New	York	Times,	and	Nothing	Ventured	has	come	in	at
number	fourteen.	You’ve	made	it!’
‘Thank	you,’	said	Harry,	not	quite	grasping	the	significance	of	what	she	was	saying.
‘And	as	I’ve	always	been	your	biggest	fan,	I	thought	you	might	like	to	celebrate.’
He	could	hear	Great-aunt	Phyllis’s	words	ringing	in	his	ears:	You	do	realize	you’ll	never	be	good
enough	for	her.
‘What	a	nice	idea,’	said	Harry.	‘Just	give	me	a	moment,’	he	added,	before	walking	back	into	the	room.He	picked	up	a	book	from	a	side	table	and	returned	to	join	her.	He	took	the	bottle	of	champagne	from
Natalie	and	smiled.	‘If	you’ve	always	been	my	biggest	fan,	perhaps	it’s	time	you	read	this,’	he	said,
handing	her	a	copy	of	Nothing	Ventured.	He	quietly	closed	the	door.
Harry	sat	on	the	bed,	poured	himself	a	glass	of	champagne,	picked	up	the	phone	and	booked	an
overseas	call.	He’d	almost	finished	the	bottle	by	the	time	Emma	came	on	the	line.
‘My	book’s	crept	on	to	the	bestseller	list	at	number	fourteen,’	he	said,	slurring	his	words.
‘That’s	wonderful	news,’	said	Emma,	stifling	a	yawn.
‘And	there’s	a	ravishing	blonde	standing	outside	in	the	corridor	holding	a	bottle	of	champagne,	and
she’s	trying	to	break	my	door	down.’
‘Yes,	of	course	there	is,	darling.	By	the	way,	you’ll	never	believe	who	asked	me	to	spend	the	night	with
him.’6
T HE	DOOR	WAS	OPENED 	by	a	woman	in	a	dark	blue	uniform	with	a	starched	white	collar.	‘I’m	Matron,’	she
announced.
Harry	shook	hands,	then	introduced	his	wife	and	son.
‘Why	don’t	you	come	through	to	my	office,’	she	said,	‘then	we	can	have	a	chat	before	you	meet	the
girls.’
Matron	led	the	three	of	them	down	a	corridor	that	was	plastered	with	colourful	paintings.
‘I	like	this	one,’	said	Sebastian,	stopping	at	one	particular	painting,	but	Matron	didn’t	respond,	clearly
believing	children	should	be	seen	and	not	heard.
The	three	of	them	followed	her	into	her	office.
Once	the	door	was	closed,	Harry	began	by	telling	Matron	how	much	they’d	all	been	looking	forward	to
the	visit.
‘As	I	know	the	children	have,’	she	replied.	‘But	first	I	must	explain	a	few	of	the	home’s	rules,	as	my
only	interest	is	the	well-being	of	the	children.’
‘Of	course,’	said	Harry.	‘We’re	in	your	hands.’
‘The	three	girls	you	have	shown	an	interest	in,	Sandra,	Sophie	and	Jessica,	are	currently	in	an	art
lesson,	which	will	give	you	a	chance	to	see	them	interacting	with	other	children.	When	we	join	them	it	is
important	that	we	allow	them	to	continue	their	work,	because	they	must	not	feel	they	are	taking	part	in	a
competition.	That	can	only	end	in	tears,	and	might	well	have	long-term	repercussions.	Having	been
rejected	once,	they	don’t	need	to	be	reminded	of	that	experience.	If	the	children	see	families	walking
around,	of	course	they	know	you’re	thinking	about	adoption.	Why	else	would	you	be	here?	What	they
mustn’t	find	out	is	that	you	are	only	considering	two	or	three	of	them.	And	of	course,	once	you’ve	met	the
three	girls,	you	may	still	want	to	visit	our	homes	in	Taunton	and	Exeter	before	you	make	up	your	minds.’
Harry	would	have	liked	to	tell	Matron	that	they’d	already	decided,	although	they	hoped	it	would	look
as	if	it	was	Sebastian	who	made	the	final	choice.
‘So,	are	we	ready	to	join	the	art	class?’
‘Yes,’	said	Sebastian,	leaping	up	and	running	to	the	door.
‘How	will	we	know	who’s	who?’	asked	Emma,	rising	slowly	from	her	seat.
Matron	scowled	at	Sebastian	before	she	said,	‘I	will	introduce	several	of	the	children	to	you,	so	none
of	them	feel	they	are	being	singled	out.	Before	we	join	them,	do	you	have	any	questions?’
Harry	was	surprised	that	Sebastian	didn’t	have	a	dozen,	but	simply	stood	by	the	door	impatiently
waiting	for	them.	As	they	walked	back	down	the	corridor	towards	the	art	class,	Sebastian	ran	ahead.
Matron	opened	the	door	to	the	classroom,	and	they	entered	and	stood	quietly	at	the	back.	She	nodded	to
the	master	in	charge,	who	said,	‘Children,	we	have	been	joined	by	some	guests.’
‘Good	afternoon,	Mr	and	Mrs	Clifton,’	said	the	children	in	unison,	several	of	them	looking	round,while	others	carried	on	painting.
‘Good	afternoon,’	said	Harry	and	Emma.	Sebastian	remained	uncharacteristically	silent.
Harry	noticed	that	most	of	the	children	kept	their	heads	bowed	and	appeared	somewhat	subdued.	He
stepped	forward	to	watch	a	boy	painting	a	football	match.	He	obviously	supported	Bristol	City,	which
caused	Harry	to	smile.
Emma	pretended	to	be	looking	at	a	picture	of	a	duck,	or	was	it	a	cat,	while	she	tried	to	work	out	which
of	the	children	was	Jessica,	but	she	was	none	the	wiser	by	the	time	Matron	joined	her	and	said,	‘This	is
Sandra.’
‘What	a	wonderful	painting,	Sandra,’	said	Emma.	A	huge	grin	appeared	on	the	girl’s	face,	while
Sebastian	bent	down	and	took	a	closer	look.
Harry	walked	across	and	began	chatting	to	Sandra,	while	Emma	and	Sebastian	were	introduced	to
Sophie.
‘It’s	a	camel,’	she	said	confidently,	before	either	of	them	could	ask.
‘Dromedary	or	Bactrian?’	asked	Sebastian.
‘Bactrian,’	she	replied	equally	confidently.
‘But	it’s	only	got	one	hump,’	said	Sebastian.
Sophie	smiled,	and	immediately	gave	the	animal	another	hump.	‘Where	do	you	go	to	school?’	she
asked.
‘I’ll	be	going	to	St	Bede’s	in	September,’	Sebastian	replied.
Harry	kept	an	eye	on	his	son,	who	was	clearly	getting	on	well	with	Sophie,	and	feared	he’d	already
made	up	his	mind,	but	then	suddenly	Sebastian	switched	his	attention	to	one	of	the	boys’	paintings,	just	as
Matron	introduced	Harry	to	Jessica.	But	she	was	so	engrossed	in	her	work	she	didn’t	even	look	up.
However	hard	he	tried,	nothing	would	break	the	girl’s	concentration.	Was	she	shy,	even	petrified?	Harry
had	no	way	of	knowing.
Harry	returned	to	Sophie	who	was	chatting	to	Emma	about	her	camel.	She	asked	him	if	he	preferred
one	hump	or	two.	While	Harry	considered	the	question,	Emma	left	Sophie	and	strolled	across	to	meet
Jessica,	but,	like	her	husband,	she	couldn’t	get	a	word	out	of	the	girl.	She	began	to	wonder	if	the	whole
exercise	was	going	to	end	in	disaster	with	Jessica	going	to	Australia	while	they	ended	up	with	Sophie.
Emma	moved	away	and	began	chatting	to	a	boy	called	Tommy	about	his	erupting	volcano.	Most	of	his
paper	was	covered	in	deep	red	flames.	Emma	thought	that	Freud	would	have	wanted	to	adopt	this	child,
as	he	daubed	even	more	blobs	of	red	paint	on	to	the	canvas.
She	glanced	across	to	see	Sebastian	chatting	to	Jessica	while	staring	intently	at	her	painting	of	Noah’s
Ark.
At	least	she	seemed	to	be	listening	to	him,	even	if	she	didn’t	look	up.	Sebastian	left	Jessica	and	gave
Sandra’s	and	Sophie’s	paintings	one	more	look,	then	went	and	stood	by	the	door.
A	few	minutes	later,	Matron	suggested	they	all	return	to	her	office	for	a	cup	of	tea.
After	she	had	poured	three	cups	and	offered	them	each	a	Bath	Oliver	biscuit,	she	said,	‘We	will	quite
understand	if	you	want	to	go	away,	give	it	some	thought	and	perhaps	return	later,	or	visit	one	of	our	other
homes,	before	you	come	to	a	final	decision.’
Harry	remained	resolutely	silent,	as	he	waited	to	see	if	Sebastian	would	show	his	hand.
‘I	thought	all	three	girls	were	quite	delightful,’	said	Emma,	‘and	found	it	almost	impossible	to	choose
between	them.’
‘I	agree,’	said	Harry.	‘Perhaps	we	should	do	as	you	suggest,	go	away	and	discuss	it	between	ourselves
and	then	let	you	know	how	we	feel.’
‘But	that	would	be	a	waste	of	time	if	we	all	want	the	same	girl,’	said	Sebastian,	with	a	precocious
child’s	logic.
‘Does	that	mean	you’ve	made	up	your	mind?’	asked	his	father,	realizing	that	once	Sebastian	hadrevealed	his	choice,	he	and	Emma	could	outvote	him,	although	he	accepted	that	might	not	be	the	best	way
for	Jessica	to	begin	her	life	at	Barrington	Hall.
‘Before	you	decide,’	said	Matron,	‘perhaps	I	should	supply	a	little	background	information	on	each	of
the	three	children.	Sandra	has	been	by	far	the	easiest	to	keep	under	control.	Sophie	is	more	gregarious	but
a	bit	of	a	scatterbrain.’
‘And	Jessica?’	asked	Harry.
‘She’s	undoubtedly	the	most	talented	of	the	girls,	but	lives	in	a	world	of	her	own	and	doesn’t	make
friends	easily.	I	would	have	thought	of	the	three,	Sandra	might	well	suit	you.’
Harry	watched	as	Sebastian’s	frown	turned	into	a	scowl.	He	switched	tactics.
‘Yes,	I	think	I	agree	with	you,	Matron,’	said	Harry.	‘My	choice	would	be	Sandra.’
‘I’m	torn,’	said	Emma.	‘I	liked	Sophie,	bubbly	and	fun.’
Emma	and	Harry	stole	a	quick	glance	at	each	other.	‘So	now	it’s	up	to	you,	Seb.	Will	it	be	Sandra	or
Sophie?’	asked	Harry.
‘Neither.	I	prefer	Jessica,’	he	said,	then	jumped	up	and	ran	out	of	the	room,	leaving	the	door	wide	open.
Matron	rose	from	behind	her	desk.	She	clearly	would	have	had	words	with	Sebastian	if	he’d	been	one
of	her	charges.
‘He	hasn’t	quite	got	the	hang	of	democracy	yet,’	said	Harry,	trying	to	make	light	of	it.	Matron	headed
for	the	door,	looking	unconvinced.	Harry	and	Emma	followed	her	down	the	corridor.	When	Matron
entered	the	classroom,	she	couldn’t	believe	her	eyes;	Jessica	was	unpinning	her	picture	and	handing	it	to
Sebastian.
‘What	did	you	offer	her	in	exchange?’	Harry	asked	his	son	as	Sebastian	marched	past	him	clutching	on
to	Noah’s	Ark.
‘I	promised	her	that	if	she	came	to	tea	tomorrow	afternoon,	she	could	have	her	favourite	food.’
‘And	what	is	her	favourite	food?’	asked	Emma.
‘Hot	crumpets	covered	in	butter	and	raspberry	jam.’
‘Would	that	be	all	right,	Matron?’	asked	Harry	anxiously.
‘Yes,	but	perhaps	it	would	be	better	if	all	three	of	them	came.’
‘No	thank	you,	Matron,’	said	Emma.	‘Jessica	will	be	just	fine.’
‘As	you	wish,’	said	Matron,	unable	to	mask	her	surprise.
As	they	drove	back	to	Barrington	Hall,	Harry	asked	Sebastian	why	he’d	chosen	Jessica.
‘Sandra	was	quite	pretty,’	he	said,	‘and	Sophie	was	lots	of	fun,	but	I’d	have	been	bored	with	both	of
them	by	the	end	of	the	month.’
‘And	Jessica?’	asked	Emma.
‘She	reminded	me	of	you,	Mama.’
Sebastian	was	standing	by	the	front	door	when	Jessica	came	to	tea.
She	climbed	the	steps,	clinging	on	to	Matron	with	one	hand	and	clutching	one	of	her	paintings	in	the
other.
‘Follow	me,’	declared	Sebastian,	but	Jessica	remained	on	the	top	step	as	if	glued	to	the	spot.	She
looked	petrified,	and	wouldn’t	budge	until	Sebastian	returned.
‘This	is	for	you,’	she	said,	handing	over	her	painting.
‘Thank	you,’	said	Sebastian,	recognizing	the	picture	he’d	spotted	on	the	wall	in	the	corridor	at	Dr
Barnardo’s.	‘Well,	you’d	better	come	in,	because	I	can’t	eat	all	the	crumpets	on	my	own.’
Jessica	stepped	tentatively	into	the	hall,	and	her	mouth	opened	wide.	Not	because	of	the	thought	of
crumpets,	but	at	the	sight	of	real	oil	paintings	with	frames	hanging	on	every	wall.‘Later,’	promised	Sebastian,	‘otherwise	the	crumpets	will	get	cold.’
As	Jessica	walked	into	the	drawing	room,	Harry	and	Emma	rose	to	greet	her,	but	once	again	she
couldn’t	take	her	eyes	off	the	pictures.	She	eventually	sat	down	on	the	sofa	next	to	Sebastian,	and
transferred	her	longing	gaze	to	a	pile	of	sizzling	hot	crumpets.	But	she	didn’t	make	a	move	until	Emma
handed	her	a	plate,	followed	by	a	crumpet,	followed	by	a	knife,	followed	by	the	butter,	followed	by	a
bowl	of	raspberry	jam.
Matron	scowled	as	Jessica	was	about	to	take	her	first	bite.
‘Thank	you,	Mrs	Clifton,’	Jessica	blurted	out.	She	devoured	two	more	crumpets,	each	accompanied	by
a	‘Thank	you,	Mrs	Clifton’.
When	she	turned	a	fourth	down	with	‘No	thank	you,	Mrs	Clifton’,	Emma	wasn’t	sure	if	she	would	have
liked	another	one,	or	Matron	had	instructed	her	not	to	eat	more	than	three.
‘Have	you	ever	heard	of	Turner?’	asked	Sebastian,	after	Jessica	had	finished	her	second	glass	of	Tizer.
She	bowed	her	head	and	didn’t	reply.	Sebastian	stood	up,	took	her	by	the	hand	and	led	her	out	of	the
room.	‘Turner’s	quite	good	actually,’	he	declared,	‘but	not	as	good	as	you.’
‘I	just	can’t	believe	it,’	said	Matron	as	the	door	closed	behind	them.	‘I’ve	never	seen	her	so	at	ease.’
‘But	she’s	hardly	uttered	a	word,’	said	Harry.
‘Believe	me,	Mr	Clifton,	you’ve	just	witnessed	Jessica’s	version	of	the	Hallelujah	Chorus.’
Emma	laughed.	‘She’s	quite	delightful.	If	there’s	a	chance	of	her	becoming	a	member	of	our	family,	how
do	we	go	about	it?’
‘It’s	a	long	process,	I’m	afraid,’	said	Matron,	‘and	it	doesn’t	always	end	satisfactorily.	You	could	begin
by	having	her	here	for	the	occasional	visit	and,	if	that	goes	well,	you	might	consider	what	we	call	a
weekend	leave.	After	that,	there’s	no	turning	back,	because	we	mustn’t	set	up	false	hopes.’
‘We’ll	be	guided	by	you,	Matron,’	said	Harry,	‘because	we	certainly	want	to	give	it	a	try.’
‘Then	I’ll	do	everything	I	can,’	she	replied.	By	the	time	she’d	drunk	her	third	cup	of	tea	and	even
managed	a	second	crumpet,	Harry	and	Emma	had	been	left	in	no	doubt	what	was	expected	of	them.
‘Where	can	Sebastian	and	Jessica	have	got	to?’	asked	Emma,	when	Matron	suggested	that	perhaps	they
should	be	on	their	way.
‘I’ll	go	and	look	for	them,’	Harry	was	saying,	when	the	two	children	came	bursting	back	into	the	room.
‘Time	for	us	to	go	home,	young	lady,’	said	Matron	as	she	rose	from	her	place.	‘After	all,	we	must	be
back	in	time	for	supper.’
Jessica	refused	to	let	go	of	Sebastian’s	hand.	‘I	don’t	want	any	more	food,’	she	said.
Matron	was	lost	for	words.
Harry	led	Jessica	into	the	hall	and	helped	her	on	with	her	coat.	As	Matron	walked	out	of	the	front	door,
Jessica	burst	into	tears.
‘Oh	no,’	said	Emma.	‘And	I	thought	it	had	all	gone	so	well.’
‘It	couldn’t	have	gone	better,’	whispered	Matron.	‘They	only	start	crying	when	they	don’t	want	to	leave.
Take	my	advice,	if	you	both	feel	the	same	way,	fill	in	the	forms	as	quickly	as	possible.’
Jessica	turned	around	and	waved	before	she	climbed	into	Matron’s	little	Austin	7,	tears	still	streaming
down	her	cheeks.
‘Good	choice,	Seb,’	said	Harry,	placing	an	arm	around	his	son’s	shoulders	as	they	watched	the	car
disappear	down	the	drive.
It	was	to	be	another	five	months	before	Matron	left	Barrington	Hall	for	the	last	time	and	headed	back	to
Dr	Barnardo’s	on	her	own,	another	of	her	waifs	and	strays	happily	settled.	Well,	not	so	happily,	because	it
was	not	long	before	Harry	and	Emma	realized	that	Jessica	had	problems	of	her	own	that	were	every	bit	asdemanding	as	Sebastian’s.
Neither	of	them	had	paused	to	consider	that	Jessica	had	never	slept	in	a	room	on	her	own,	and	on	her
first	night	at	Barrington	Hall	she	left	the	nursery	door	wide	open	and	cried	herself	to	sleep.	Harry	and
Emma	became	used	to	a	warm	little	object	climbing	into	bed	between	them	not	long	after	she	woke	in	the
mornings.	This	became	less	frequent	when	Sebastian	parted	with	his	teddy	bear,	Winston,	handing	the
former	prime	minister	over	to	Jessica.
Jessica	adored	Winston,	second	only	to	Sebastian,	despite	her	new	brother	declaring	somewhat
haughtily,	‘I’m	far	too	grown	up	to	have	a	teddy	bear.	After	all,	I’ll	be	going	to	school	in	a	few	weeks’
time.’
Jessica	wanted	to	go	to	St	Bede’s	with	him,	but	Harry	explained	that	boys	and	girls	didn’t	go	to	the
same	school.
‘Why	not?’	Jessica	demanded.
‘Why	not	indeed,’	said	Emma.
When	the	first	day	of	term	finally	dawned,	Emma	stared	at	her	young	man,	wondering	where	the	years
had	gone.	He	was	dressed	in	a	red	blazer,	red	cap	and	grey	flannel	shorts.	Even	his	shoes	shone.	Well,	it
was	the	first	day	of	term.	Jessica	stood	on	the	doorstep	and	waved	goodbye	as	the	car	disappeared	down
the	drive	and	out	of	the	front	gates.	She	then	sat	down	on	the	top	step	and	waited	for	Sebastian	to	return.
Sebastian	had	requested	that	his	mother	didn’t	join	him	and	his	father	on	the	journey	to	school.	When
Harry	asked	why,	he	replied,	‘I	don’t	want	the	other	boys	to	see	Mama	kissing	me.’
Harry	would	have	reasoned	with	him,	if	he	hadn’t	recalled	his	first	day	at	St	Bede’s.	He	and	his	mother
had	taken	the	tram	from	Still	House	Lane,	and	he’d	asked	if	they	could	get	off	a	stop	early	and	walk	the
last	hundred	yards	so	the	other	boys	wouldn’t	realize	they	didn’t	own	a	car.	And	when	they	were	fifty
yards	from	the	school	gates,	although	he	allowed	her	to	kiss	him,	he	quickly	said	goodbye	and	left	her
standing	there.	As	he	approached	St	Bede’s	for	the	first	time,	he	saw	his	future	classmates	being	dropped
off	from	hansom	cabs	and	motor	cars	–	one	even	arrived	in	a	Rolls-Royce	driven	by	a	liveried	chauffeur.
Harry	had	also	found	his	first	night	away	from	home	difficult,	but,	unlike	Jessica,	it	was	because	he’d
never	slept	in	a	room	with	other	children.
But	the	alphabet	had	been	kind	to	him,	because	he	ended	up	sleeping	in	a	dormitory	with	Barrington	on
one	side	and	Deakins	on	the	other.	He	wasn’t	as	lucky	when	it	came	to	his	dormitory	prefect.	Alex	Fisher
slippered	him	every	other	night	of	his	first	week,	for	no	other	reason	than	Harry	was	the	son	of	a	dock
labourer,	and	therefore	not	worthy	of	being	educated	at	the	same	school	as	Fisher,	the	son	of	an	estate
agent.	Harry	sometimes	wondered	what	had	happened	to	Fisher	after	he	left	St	Bede’s.	He	knew	that	he
and	Giles	had	crossed	paths	during	the	war	when	they’d	served	in	the	same	regiment	at	Tobruk,	and	he
assumed	Fisher	must	still	live	in	Bristol,	because	he’d	recently	avoided	talking	to	him	at	a	St	Bede’s	Old
Boys’	reunion.
At	least	Sebastian	would	be	arriving	in	a	motor	car,	and	as	a	day	bug	he	wouldn’t	suffer	the	Fisher
problem,	because	he	would	be	returning	to	Barrington	Hall	every	evening.	Even	so,	Harry	suspected	that
his	son	wasn’t	going	to	find	St	Bede’s	any	easier	than	he	had,	even	if	it	would	be	for	completely	different
reasons.
When	Harry	drew	up	outside	the	school	gates,	Sebastian	jumped	out	even	before	he’d	had	time	to	pull
on	the	brakes.	Harry	watched	as	his	son	ran	through	the	gates	and	disappeared	into	a	melee	of	red	blazers
in	which	he	was	indistinguishable	from	a	hundred	other	boys.	He	never	once	looked	back.	Harry	accepted
that	the	old	order	changeth,	yielding	place	to	new.
He	drove	slowly	back	to	Barrington	Hall	and	began	to	think	about	the	next	chapter	of	his	latest	book.
Was	it	time	for	William	Warwick	to	be	promoted?
As	he	approached	the	house,	he	spotted	Jessica	sitting	on	the	top	step.	He	smiled	as	he	brought	the	car
to	a	halt.	But	when	he	climbed	out,	the	first	thing	she	said	was,	‘Where’s	Seb?’Each	day,	while	Sebastian	was	away	at	school,	Jessica	retreated	into	her	own	world.	While	she	waited
for	him	to	return	home	she	would	pass	the	time	by	reading	to	Winston	about	other	animals,	Pooh	Bear,	Mr
Toad,	a	white	rabbit,	a	marmalade	cat	called	Orlando,	and	a	crocodile	that	had	swallowed	a	clock.
Once	Winston	had	fallen	asleep,	she	would	tuck	him	up	in	bed,	return	to	her	easel	and	paint.	On	and	on.
In	fact,	what	Emma	had	once	considered	the	nursery	had	been	converted	by	Jessica	into	an	art	studio.
Once	she	had	covered	every	piece	of	paper	she	could	lay	her	hands	on,	including	Harry’s	old	manuscripts
(he	had	to	keep	his	new	ones	locked	up),	with	pencil,	crayon	or	paint,	she	turned	her	attention	to
redecorating	the	nursery	walls.
Harry	didn’t	want	to	curb	her	enthusiasm,	far	from	it,	but	he	did	remind	Emma	that	Barrington	Hall
wasn’t	their	home,	and	perhaps	they	ought	to	consult	Giles	before	she	escaped	from	the	nursery	and
discovered	how	many	other	pristine	walls	there	were	in	the	house.
But	Giles	was	so	smitten	with	the	new	arrival	at	Barrington	Hall	that	he	declared	he	wouldn’t	mind	if
she	repainted	the	whole	house	inside	and	out.
‘For	heaven’s	sake,	don’t	encourage	her,’	begged	Emma.	‘Sebastian	has	already	asked	her	to	repaint	his
room.’
‘And	when	are	you	going	to	tell	her	the	truth?’	Giles	asked	as	they	sat	down	for	dinner.
‘We	can’t	see	that	there’s	any	need	to	tell	her	yet,’	said	Harry.	‘After	all,	Jessica’s	only	six,	and	she’s
hardly	settled	in.’
‘Well,	don’t	leave	it	too	long,’	Giles	warned	him,	‘because	she	already	looks	upon	you	and	Emma	as
her	parents,	Seb	as	her	brother,	and	calls	me	Uncle	Giles,	while	the	truth	is	she’s	my	half-sister,	and	Seb’s
aunt.’
Harry	laughed.	‘I	think	it	will	be	some	time	before	she	can	be	expected	to	grasp	that.’
‘I	hope	she	never	has	to,’	said	Emma.	‘Don’t	forget,	all	she	knows	is	that	her	real	parents	are	dead.
Why	should	that	change,	while	only	the	three	of	us	know	the	whole	truth?’
‘Don’t	underestimate	Sebastian.	He’s	already	halfway	there.’7
H ARRY	AND 	E MMA 	were	surprised	when	they	were	invited	to	join	the	headmaster	for	tea	at	the	end	of
Sebastian’s	first	term,	and	quickly	discovered	it	was	not	a	social	occasion.
‘Your	son’s	a	bit	of	a	loner,’	declared	Dr	Hedley,	once	the	maid	had	poured	them	a	cup	of	tea	and	left
the	room.	‘In	fact	he’s	more	likely	to	befriend	a	boy	from	overseas	than	one	who’s	lived	in	Bristol	all	his
life.’
‘Why	would	that	be?’	asked	Emma.
‘Boys	from	far-flung	shores	have	never	heard	of	Mr	and	Mrs	Harry	Clifton,	or	his	famous	uncle	Giles,’
explained	the	headmaster.	‘But,	as	is	so	often	the	case,	something	positive	has	come	out	of	it	because
we’ve	become	aware	that	Sebastian	has	a	natural	gift	for	languages	that	in	normal	circumstances	might
have	been	missed.	In	fact,	he	is	the	only	boy	in	the	school	who	can	converse	with	Lu	Yang	in	his	native
tongue.’
Harry	laughed,	but	Emma	noticed	that	the	headmaster	wasn’t	smiling.
‘However,’	Dr	Hedley	continued,	‘there	may	be	a	problem	when	it	comes	to	Sebastian	sitting	his
entrance	exam	for	Bristol	Grammar	School.’
‘But	he	came	top	in	English,	French	and	Latin,’	said	Emma	proudly.
‘And	he	scored	one	hundred	per	cent	in	maths,’	Harry	reminded	the	headmaster.
‘True,	and	all	very	commendable,	but	unfortunately,	at	the	same	time,	he	languishes	near	the	bottom	of
his	class	in	history,	geography	and	natural	sciences,	all	of	which	are	compulsory	subjects.	Should	he	fail
to	reach	the	pass	mark	in	two	or	more	of	these,	he	will	automatically	be	rejected	by	BGS,	which	I	know
would	be	a	great	disappointment	for	both	of	you,	as	well	as	his	uncle.’
‘Great	disappointment	would	be	an	understatement,’	said	Harry.
‘Quite	so,’	said	Dr	Hedley.
‘Do	they	ever	make	exceptions	to	the	rules?’	asked	Emma.
‘I	can	only	recall	one	case	in	my	tenure,’	said	the	headmaster,	‘and	that	was	for	a	boy	who	had	scored	a
century	every	Saturday	during	the	summer	term.’
Harry	laughed,	having	sat	on	the	grass	and	watched	Giles	score	every	one	of	them.	‘So	we’ll	just	have
to	make	sure	he	realizes	the	consequences	of	dropping	below	the	pass	mark	in	two	of	the	compulsory
subjects.’
‘It’s	not	that	he	isn’t	bright	enough,’	said	the	headmaster,	‘but	if	a	subject	doesn’t	appeal	to	him,	he
quickly	becomes	bored.	The	irony	is,	with	his	talent	for	languages,	I	predict	he’ll	sail	into	Oxford.	But	we
still	have	to	make	sure	he	paddles	into	BGS.’
After	a	little	coaxing	from	his	father,	and	some	considerable	bribery	from	his	grandmother,	Sebastianmanaged	to	climb	a	few	places	off	the	bottom	in	two	of	the	three	compulsory	subjects.	He’d	worked	out
that	he	was	permitted	to	fail	one,	and	chose	natural	sciences.
By	the	end	of	Sebastian’s	second	year,	the	headmaster	felt	confident	that	with	a	little	more	effort	the
boy	would	obtain	the	necessary	pass	mark	in	five	of	the	six	exam	subjects.	He	too	had	given	up	on	natural
sciences.	Harry	and	Emma	were	beginning	to	feel	more	hopeful,	but	still	tried	to	keep	Sebastian	up	to	the
mark.	And	indeed,	the	headmaster	might	have	proved	right	in	his	optimistic	assessment,	had	it	not	been	for
two	incidents	that	occurred	during	Sebastian’s	final	year.8
‘I S	THAT	YOUR 	father’s	book?’
Sebastian	looked	at	a	pile	of	novels	stacked	neatly	in	the	window	of	the	bookshop.	A	sign	above	them
read,	Nothing	Gained	by	Harry	Clifton,	3s	6d.	The	latest	adventure	of	William	Warwick.
‘Yes,’	said	Sebastian	proudly.	‘Would	you	like	one?’
‘Yes,	please,’	said	Lu	Yang.
Sebastian	strolled	into	the	shop,	followed	by	his	friend.	A	table	near	the	front	was	piled	high	with	his
father’s	latest	hardback,	surrounded	by	paperbacks	of	The	Case	of	the	Blind	Witness	and	Nothing
Ventured,	the	first	two	novels	in	the	William	Warwick	series.
Sebastian	handed	Lu	Yang	a	copy	of	each	of	the	three	books.	They	were	quickly	joined	by	several	of
his	classmates,	and	he	gave	each	of	them	a	copy	of	the	latest	book,	and	in	some	cases	the	other	two	as
well.	The	pile	was	rapidly	diminishing	when	a	middle-aged	man	charged	out	from	behind	the	counter,
grabbed	Sebastian	by	the	collar	and	dragged	him	away.
‘What	do	you	think	you’re	doing?’	he	shouted.
‘It’s	all	right,’	said	Sebastian,	‘they’re	my	father’s	books!’
‘Now	I’ve	heard	everything,’	said	the	manager	as	he	marched	Sebastian,	who	was	protesting	with
every	stride,	towards	the	back	of	the	shop.	He	turned	to	an	assistant	and	said,	‘Call	the	police.	I	caught
this	thief	red-handed.	Then	see	if	you	can	retrieve	the	books	his	friends	ran	off	with.’
The	manager	shoved	Sebastian	into	his	office	and	dumped	him	firmly	on	to	an	old	horsehair	sofa.
‘Don’t	even	think	about	moving,’	he	said	as	he	left	the	office,	closing	the	door	firmly	behind	him.
Sebastian	heard	a	key	turning	in	the	lock.	He	stood	up,	walked	across	to	the	manager’s	desk	and	picked
up	a	book,	then	sat	back	down	and	began	reading.	He’d	reached	page	nine,	and	was	getting	to	quite	like
Richard	Hannay,	when	the	door	opened	and	the	manager	returned	with	a	triumphant	smirk	on	his	face.
‘There	he	is,	chief	inspector,	I	caught	the	lad	red-handed.’
Chief	Inspector	Blakemore	tried	to	keep	a	straight	face	when	the	manager	added,	‘Had	the	gall	to	tell
me	the	books	belonged	to	his	father.’
‘He	wasn’t	lying,’	said	Blakemore.	‘That’s	Harry	Clifton’s	boy.’	Looking	sternly	at	Sebastian,	he
added,	‘But	that’s	no	excuse	for	what	you	did,	young	man.’
‘Even	if	his	father	is	Harry	Clifton,	I’m	still	short	one	pound	and	eighteen	shillings,’	said	the	manager.
‘So	what	do	you	intend	to	do	about	that?’	he	added,	pointing	an	accusing	finger	at	Sebastian.
‘I’ve	already	contacted	Mr	Clifton,’	said	Blakemore,	‘so	I	don’t	think	it	will	be	long	before	that
question	is	answered.	While	we	wait	for	him,	I	suggest	you	explain	the	economics	of	bookselling	to	his
son.’
The	manager,	looking	a	little	chastened,	sat	down	on	the	corner	of	his	desk.
‘When	your	father	writes	a	book,’	he	said,	‘his	publishers	pay	him	an	advance,	and	then	a	percentage	ofthe	cover	price	for	each	copy	sold.	In	your	dad’s	case,	I	would	guess	that	would	be	around	ten	per	cent.
The	publisher	also	has	to	pay	his	salesmen,	the	editorial	and	publicity	staff,	and	the	printer,	as	well	as	any
advertising	and	distribution	costs.’
‘And	how	much	do	you	have	to	pay	for	each	book?’	asked	Sebastian.
Blakemore	couldn’t	wait	to	hear	the	bookseller’s	reply.	The	manager	hesitated	before	saying,	‘Around
two-thirds	of	the	cover	price.’
Sebastian’s	eyes	narrowed.	‘So	my	father	only	gets	ten	per	cent	on	each	book,	while	you	pocket	thirty-
three	per	cent?’
‘Yes,	but	I	have	to	pay	rent	and	rates	for	these	premises,	as	well	as	my	staff’s	wages,’	said	the	manager
defensively.
‘So	it	would	be	cheaper	for	my	father	to	replace	the	books	rather	than	pay	you	the	full	amount	of	the
cover	price?’
The	chief	inspector	wished	Sir	Walter	Barrington	was	still	alive.	He	would	have	enjoyed	this
exchange.
‘Perhaps	you	could	tell	me,	sir,’	continued	Sebastian,	‘how	many	books	need	to	be	replaced.’
‘Eight	hardbacks	and	eleven	paperbacks,’	said	the	manager,	as	Harry	walked	into	the	office.
Chief	Inspector	Blakemore	explained	to	him	what	had	happened,	before	adding,	‘I	won’t	be	charging
the	boy	for	shoplifting	on	this	occasion,	Mr	Clifton,	just	issuing	him	with	a	caution.	I’ll	leave	it	to	you	to
make	sure,	sir,	that	he	doesn’t	do	anything	as	irresponsible	again.’
‘Of	course,	chief	inspector,’	said	Harry.	‘I’m	most	grateful,	and	I’ll	ask	my	publishers	to	replace	the
books	immediately.	And	there	will	be	no	more	pocket	money	for	you,	my	boy,	until	every	penny	has	been
paid	back,’	he	added,	turning	to	face	Sebastian.
Sebastian	bit	his	lip.
‘Thank	you,	Mr	Clifton,’	said	the	manager,	and	added	a	little	sheepishly,	‘I	was	wondering,	sir,	as
you’re	here,	if	you’d	be	kind	enough	to	sign	the	rest	of	the	stock?’
When	Emma’s	mother	Elizabeth	went	into	hospital	for	a	checkup,	she	tried	to	reassure	her	daughter	that
there	was	nothing	to	worry	about,	and	told	her	she	wasn’t	to	tell	Harry	or	the	children	because	it	would
only	make	them	anxious.
It	certainly	made	Emma	anxious	and,	as	soon	as	she	returned	to	Barrington	Hall,	she	phoned	Giles	at
the	House	of	Commons,	and	then	her	sister	in	Cambridge.	They	both	dropped	everything	and	caught	the
next	train	to	Bristol.
‘Let’s	hope	I’m	not	wasting	your	time,’	said	Emma	after	she’d	picked	them	up	from	Temple	Meads.
‘Let’s	hope	you	are	wasting	our	time,’	Grace	replied.
Giles	appeared	preoccupied	and	stared	out	of	the	window	as	they	continued	their	journey	to	the
hospital	in	silence.
Even	before	Mr	Langbourne	had	closed	the	door	to	his	office,	Emma	sensed	the	news	wasn’t	going	to
be	good.
‘I	wish	there	was	an	easy	way	to	tell	you	this,’	the	specialist	said	once	they’d	sat	down,	‘but	I’m	afraid
there	isn’t.	Dr	Raeburn,	who’s	been	your	mother’s	GP	for	several	years,	carried	out	a	routine	check-up,
and	when	he	got	the	results	of	his	tests,	he	referred	her	to	me	in	order	that	I	could	carry	out	a	more
detailed	examination.’
Emma	clenched	her	fists,	something	she	used	to	do	as	a	schoolgirl	whenever	she	was	nervous	or	in
trouble.
‘Yesterday,’	continued	Mr	Langbourne,	‘I	received	the	results	from	the	clinical	lab.	They	confirmed	DrRaeburn’s	fears:	your	mother	has	breast	cancer.’
‘Can	she	be	cured?’	was	Emma’s	immediate	response.
‘There	is	no	cure	at	present	for	someone	of	her	age,’	said	Langbourne.	‘Scientists	are	hoping	for	a
breakthrough	at	some	time	in	the	future,	but	I	fear	that	won’t	be	soon	enough	for	your	mother.’
‘Is	there	anything	we	can	do?’	asked	Grace.
Emma	leant	across	and	took	her	sister’s	hand.
‘During	this	time,	she	will	need	all	the	love	and	support	you	and	the	family	can	give	her.	Elizabeth	is	a
remarkable	woman,	and	after	all	she	has	been	through,	she	deserves	better.	But	she’s	never	once
complained	–	not	her	style.	She’s	a	typical	Harvey.’
‘How	long	will	she	be	with	us?’	asked	Emma.
‘I	fear,’	said	Langbourne,	‘that	it	will	be	a	matter	of	weeks,	rather	than	months.’
‘Then	there’s	something	I	have	to	tell	her,’	said	Giles,	who	hadn’t	spoken	until	then.
The	shoplifting	incident,	as	it	came	to	be	known	at	St	Bede’s,	turned	Sebastian	from	a	bit	of	a	loner	into
something	of	a	folk	hero,	and	boys	who	previously	wouldn’t	have	bothered	with	him	invited	him	to	join
their	gangs.	Harry	began	to	believe	this	might	be	a	turning	point,	but	when	he	told	Sebastian	that	his
grandmother	only	had	a	few	weeks	to	live,	the	boy	crept	back	into	his	shell.
Jessica	had	begun	her	first	term	at	Red	Maids’.	She	worked	far	harder	than	Sebastian,	but	didn’t	come
top	in	any	subject.	The	art	mistress	told	Emma	it	was	a	pity	that	painting	wasn’t	a	recognized	subject,
because	Jessica	had	more	talent	at	the	age	of	eight	than	she	herself	had	shown	in	her	final	year	at	college.
Emma	decided	not	to	repeat	this	conversation	to	Jessica	but	to	allow	the	child	to	discover	for	herself
just	how	talented	she	was	in	the	fullness	of	time.	Sebastian	regularly	told	her	she	was	a	genius,	but	what
did	he	know?	He	also	thought	Stanley	Matthews	was	a	genius.
A	month	later,	Sebastian	failed	three	of	his	mock	papers,	taken	only	weeks	before	the	BGS	entrance
exams.	Neither	Harry	nor	Emma	felt	they	could	chastise	him	while	he	was	so	distressed	about	his
grandmother’s	condition.	He	would	accompany	Emma	to	the	hospital	every	afternoon	after	she	picked	him
up	from	school,	climb	on	to	his	grandmother’s	bed	and	read	to	her	from	his	favourite	book	until	she	fell
asleep.
Jessica	painted	a	new	picture	for	Granny	every	day,	and	dropped	it	off	at	the	hospital	the	following
morning	before	Harry	took	her	on	to	school.	There	were	only	a	few	blank	spaces	left	on	the	walls	of	her
private	gallery	by	the	end	of	term.
Giles	missed	several	three-line	whips,	Grace	countless	tutorials,	Harry	endless	deadlines,	and	Emma
sometimes	failed	to	reply	to	Cyrus	Feldman’s	weekly	letters.	But	it	was	Sebastian	who	Elizabeth	most
looked	forward	to	seeing	every	day.	Harry	couldn’t	be	sure	who	benefited	more	from	the	experience,	his
son	or	his	mother-in-law.
It	didn’t	help	that	Sebastian	had	to	take	his	exam	for	Bristol	Grammar	School	while	his	grandmother’s	life
was	ebbing	away.
The	outcome	was	as	the	headmaster	of	St	Bede’s	had	predicted,	mixed.	His	Latin,	French,	English	and
maths	papers	were	of	scholarship	level,	while	he	barely	made	the	pass	mark	in	history,	failed	narrowly	in
geography,	and	scored	just	9	per	cent	in	his	natural	sciences	paper.
Dr	Hedley	called	Harry	at	Barrington	Hall	moments	after	the	results	had	been	posted	on	the	school
notice	board.
‘I’ll	have	a	private	word	with	John	Garrett,	my	opposite	number	at	BGS,’	he	said,	‘and	remind	him	thatSebastian	scored	a	hundred	per	cent	in	Latin	and	maths,	and	will	almost	certainly	be	scholarship	material
by	the	time	it	comes	for	him	to	go	to	university.’
‘You	might	also	remind	him,’	said	Harry,	‘that	both	his	uncle	and	I	were	at	BGS,	and	his	grandfather,
Sir	Walter	Barrington,	was	chairman	of	the	governors.’
‘I	don’t	think	he’ll	need	reminding,’	said	Hedley.	‘But	I	will	point	out	that	Sebastian’s	grandmother	was
in	hospital	while	he	was	taking	the	exams.	All	we	can	do	is	hope	he	backs	my	judgement.’
He	did.	Dr	Hedley	called	Harry	at	the	end	of	the	week	to	say	that	the	headmaster	of	BGS	would	be
recommending	to	the	board	that,	despite	Sebastian	failing	two	of	the	set	papers,	he	should	still	be	offered
a	place	at	BGS	for	the	Michaelmas	term.
‘Thank	you,’	said	Harry.	‘That’s	the	first	good	news	I’ve	had	in	weeks.’
‘But,’	Hedley	added,	‘he	reminded	me	that	in	the	end	it	will	be	the	board’s	decision.’
Harry	was	the	last	person	to	visit	his	mother-in-law	that	night,	and	was	just	about	to	leave	when	Elizabeth
whispered,	‘Can	you	stay	for	a	few	more	minutes,	my	dear?	There’s	something	I	need	to	discuss	with
you.’
‘Yes,	of	course,’	said	Harry,	sitting	back	down	on	the	edge	of	the	bed.
‘I	spent	the	morning	with	Desmond	Siddons,	our	family	lawyer,’	Elizabeth	said,	stumbling	over	each
word,	‘and	I	wanted	to	let	you	know	that	I’ve	executed	a	new	will,	because	I	can’t	bear	the	thought	of	that
dreadful	woman	Virginia	Fenwick	getting	her	hands	on	any	of	my	possessions.’
‘I	don’t	think	that’s	a	problem	any	longer.	We	haven’t	seen	or	heard	from	Virginia	for	weeks,	so	I
assume	it’s	all	over.’
‘The	reason	you	haven’t	seen	or	heard	from	her	for	weeks,	Harry,	is	because	she	wants	me	to	believe
it’s	all	over.	It’s	not	a	coincidence	that	she	disappeared	from	the	scene	only	days	after	Giles	learned	I
didn’t	have	long	to	live.’
‘I’m	sure	you’re	overreacting,	Elizabeth.	I	don’t	believe	even	Virginia	could	be	that	callous.’
‘My	dear	Harry,	you	always	give	everyone	the	benefit	of	the	doubt	because	you	have	such	a	generous
nature.	It	was	a	lucky	day	for	Emma	when	she	met	you.’
‘It’s	sweet	of	you	to	say	so,	Elizabeth,	but	I’m	sure	that	given	time—’
‘That’s	the	one	thing	I	don’t	have.’
‘Then	perhaps	we	should	ask	Virginia	to	come	and	visit	you?’
‘I’ve	made	it	clear	to	Giles	on	several	occasions	that	I’d	like	to	meet	her,	but	each	time	I’ve	been
rebuffed	with	more	and	more	unlikely	excuses.	Now,	why	do	you	think	that	is?	Don’t	bother	to	answer,
Harry,	because	you’ll	be	the	last	person	to	work	out	what	Virginia’s	really	up	to.	And	you	can	be	sure	she
won’t	make	her	move	until	after	my	funeral.’	A	flicker	of	a	smile	crossed	Elizabeth’s	face	before	she
added,	‘But	I	still	have	one	card	up	my	sleeve,	which	I	don’t	intend	to	play	until	I’ve	been	lowered	into
my	grave,	when	my	spirit	will	return	like	an	avenging	angel.’
Harry	didn’t	interrupt	Elizabeth	as	she	leant	back	and,	with	all	the	energy	she	could	muster,	removed	an
envelope	from	under	her	pillow.	‘Now	listen	to	me	carefully,	Harry,’	she	said.	You	must	be	sure	to	carry
out	my	instructions	to	the	letter.’	She	gripped	his	hand.	‘If	Giles	should	contest	my	latest	will—’
‘But	why	would	he	do	that?’
‘Because	he’s	a	Barrington,	and	Barringtons	have	always	been	weak	when	it	comes	to	women.	So,	if	he
should	contest	my	latest	will,’	she	repeated,	‘you	must	give	this	envelope	to	the	judge	who	is	selected	to
decide	which	member	of	the	family	will	inherit	my	estate.’
‘And	if	he	doesn’t?’
‘You	must	destroy	it,’	said	Elizabeth,	her	breathing	becoming	shallower	by	the	second.	‘You	are	not	toopen	it	yourself,	or	ever	let	Giles	or	Emma	know	of	its	existence.’	She	tightened	her	grip	on	his	hand,	and
whispered	almost	inaudibly,	‘Now	you	must	give	me	your	word,	Harry	Clifton,	because	I	know	Old	Jack
taught	you	that	should	always	be	enough.’
‘You	have	my	word,’	said	Harry,	and	placed	the	envelope	in	an	inside	pocket	of	his	jacket.
Elizabeth	relaxed	her	grip,	and	sank	back	on	the	pillow,	a	contented	smile	on	her	lips.	She	never	did
discover	if	Sydney	Carton	escaped	the	guillotine.
Harry	opened	the	post	while	he	was	having	breakfast.
Bristol	Grammar	School,
University	Road,
Bristol
July	27th,	1951
Dear	Mr	Clifton,
I	am	sorry	to	inform	you	that	your	son,	Sebastian,	has	not	been	.	.	.
Harry	leapt	up	from	the	breakfast	table	and	walked	across	to	the	telephone.	He	dialled	the	number	at
the	bottom	of	the	letter.
‘Headmaster’s	office,’	announced	a	voice.
‘May	I	speak	to	Mr	Garrett?’
‘Who’s	calling,	please?’
‘Harry	Clifton.’
‘I’ll	put	you	through,	sir.’
‘Good	morning,	headmaster.	My	name	is	Harry	Clifton.’
‘Good	morning,	Mr	Clifton.	I’ve	been	expecting	your	call.’
‘I	can’t	believe	the	board	came	to	such	an	ill-founded	decision.’
‘Frankly,	Mr	Clifton,	neither	could	I,	especially	after	I’d	pleaded	your	son’s	case	so	vehemently.’
‘What	reason	did	they	give	for	turning	him	down?’
‘That	they	mustn’t	be	seen	to	be	making	an	exception	for	an	old	boy’s	son	when	he’d	failed	to	obtain	the
pass	mark	in	two	compulsory	subjects.’
‘And	that	was	their	only	reason?’
‘No,’	replied	the	headmaster.	‘One	of	the	governors	raised	the	matter	of	your	son	being	cautioned	by
the	police	for	shoplifting.’
‘But	there’s	a	perfectly	innocent	explanation	for	that	incident,’	said	Harry,	trying	not	to	lose	his	temper.
‘I	don’t	doubt	there	is,’	said	Garrett,	‘but	our	new	chairman	couldn’t	be	swayed	on	the	matter.’
‘Then	he’ll	be	my	next	call.	What’s	his	name?’
‘Major	Alex	Fisher.’GILES	BARRINGTON
1951–19549
G ILES	WAS	DELIGHTED 	although	not	surprised	to	find	that	the	parish	church	of	St	Andrew’s,	where
Elizabeth	Harvey	had	been	married,	and	her	three	children	baptised	and	later	confirmed,	was	packed	with
family,	friends	and	admirers.
The	Reverend	Mr	Donaldson’s	tribute	reminded	everyone	how	much	Elizabeth	Barrington	had	done	for
the	local	community.	Indeed,	he	said,	without	her	generosity,	the	restoration	of	the	church	tower	would	not
have	been	possible.	He	went	on	to	tell	the	congregation	just	how	many	people,	far	beyond	these	walls,
had	benefited	from	her	wisdom	and	insight	when	she	was	patron	of	the	cottage	hospital,	and	of	the	role
she	had	played	as	head	of	her	family,	following	the	death	of	Lord	Harvey.	Giles	was	relieved,	as	no	doubt
were	most	of	those	present,	that	the	vicar	made	no	reference	to	his	father.
Reverend	Donaldson	ended	his	eulogy	with	the	words,	‘Elizabeth’s	life	was	cut	short	by	her	untimely
death	at	the	age	of	fifty-one,	but	it	is	not	for	us	to	question	the	will	of	our	Lord.’
After	he	had	returned	to	his	pew,	Giles	and	Sebastian	each	read	a	lesson,	‘The	Good	Samaritan’	and
‘The	Sermon	on	the	Mount’,	while	Emma	and	Grace	recited	verses	by	their	mother’s	favourite	poets.
Emma	chose	Shelley:
Lost	angel	of	a	ruined	paradise!
She	knew	not	’twas	her	own,	–	as	with	no	stain
She	faded,	like	a	cloud	which	had	outwept	its	rain.
While	Grace	read	from	Keats:
Stop	and	consider!	life	is	but	a	day;
A	fragile	dew-drop	on	its	perilous	way
From	a	tree’s	summit;	a	poor	Indian’s	sleep
While	his	boat	hastens	to	the	monstrous	steep	.	.	.
As	the	congregation	filed	out	of	the	church,	several	people	asked	who	the	attractive	woman	on	Sir	Giles’s
arm	was.	Harry	couldn’t	help	thinking	that	Elizabeth’s	prediction	was	already	coming	to	pass.	Dressed
entirely	in	black,	Virginia	was	standing	at	Giles’s	right	hand	as	the	pall-bearers	lowered	Elizabeth’s
coffin	into	the	grave.	Harry	recalled	his	mother-in-law’s	words:	I	still	have	one	card	up	my	sleeve.
After	the	burial	service	had	been	completed,	the	family	and	a	few	close	friends	were	invited	to	join
Giles,	Emma	and	Grace	at	Barrington	Hall	for	what	the	Irish	would	have	called	a	wake.	Virginia	moved
deftly	from	mourner	to	mourner,	introducing	herself	as	if	she	were	already	the	lady	of	the	house.	Giles
didn’t	seem	to	notice,	and	if	he	did,	clearly	didn’t	disapprove.
‘Hello,	I’m	Lady	Virginia	Fenwick,’	she	said	when	she	met	Harry’s	mother	for	the	first	time.	‘Andwhere	do	you	fit	in?’
‘I’m	Mrs	Holcombe,’	Maisie	replied.	‘Harry’s	my	son.’
‘Oh,	yes,	of	course,’	said	Virginia.	‘Aren’t	you	a	waitress	or	something?’
‘I’m	the	manager	of	the	Grand	Hotel	in	Bristol,’	Maisie	said,	as	if	dealing	with	a	tiresome	customer.
‘Of	course	you	are.	But	then,	it	will	take	me	a	little	time	to	get	used	to	the	idea	of	women	working.	You
see,	the	women	in	my	family	have	never	worked,’	Virginia	said,	quickly	moving	on	before	Maisie	could
respond.
‘Who	are	you?’	asked	Sebastian.
‘I’m	Lady	Virginia	Fenwick,	and	who	are	you,	young	man?’
‘Sebastian	Clifton.’
‘Ah	yes.	Has	your	father	finally	managed	to	find	a	school	that	will	take	you?’
‘I’ll	be	going	to	Beechcroft	Abbey	in	September,’	countered	Sebastian.
‘Not	a	bad	school,’	replied	Virginia,	‘but	hardly	top	drawer.	My	three	brothers	were	all	educated	at
Harrow,	as	the	past	seven	generations	of	Fenwicks	have	been.’
‘Where	did	you	go	to	school?’	asked	Sebastian,	as	Jessica	came	rushing	across	to	him.
‘Have	you	seen	the	Constable,	Seb?’	she	asked.
‘Little	girl,	don’t	interrupt	me	when	I’m	speaking,’	said	Virginia.	‘It’s	frightfully	rude.’
‘Sorry,	miss,’	said	Jessica.
‘I’m	not	“miss”,	you	should	always	address	me	as	Lady	Virginia.’
‘Have	you	seen	the	Constable,	Lady	Virginia?’	asked	Jessica.
‘I	have	indeed,	and	it	compares	favourably	with	the	three	in	my	family	collection.	But	it’s	not	in	the
same	class	as	our	Turner.	Have	you	heard	of	Turner?’
‘Yes,	Lady	Virginia,’	said	Jessica.	‘J.	M.	W.	Turner,	possibly	the	greatest	watercolourist	of	his	age.’
‘My	sister’s	an	artist,’	said	Sebastian.	‘I	think	she’s	just	as	good	as	Turner.’
Jessica	giggled.	‘Excuse	him,	Lady	Virginia,	as	Mama	often	reminds	him,	he	does	have	a	tendency	to
exaggerate.’
‘Clearly,’	said	Virginia,	leaving	them	to	go	off	in	search	of	Giles,	as	she	felt	it	was	time	for	the	guests
to	leave.
Giles	accompanied	the	vicar	to	the	front	door,	which	was	taken	as	a	sign	by	the	remainder	of	the	guests
that	the	time	had	come	for	everyone	else	to	depart.	When	he	closed	the	door	for	the	last	time,	he	breathed
a	sigh	of	relief,	and	returned	to	the	drawing	room	to	join	the	family.
‘Well,	I	think	that	went	as	well	as	could	be	expected	in	the	circumstances,’	he	said.
‘One	or	two	of	the	hangers-on	treated	it	more	like	a	feast	than	a	wake,’	said	Virginia.
‘Would	you	mind,	old	chap,’	Giles	said,	turning	to	Harry,	‘if	we	dressed	for	dinner?	Virginia	feels
strongly	about	that	sort	of	thing.’
‘One	can’t	afford	to	let	standards	slip,’	volunteered	Virginia.
‘My	father	couldn’t	have	let	them	slip	much	further,’	said	Grace,	which	caused	Harry	to	stifle	a	laugh.
‘But	I’m	afraid	you’ll	have	to	count	me	out.	I	have	to	get	back	to	Cambridge	as	I	have	a	supervision	to
prepare.	In	any	case,’	she	added,	‘I	came	dressed	for	a	funeral,	not	a	dinner	party.	Don’t	bother	to	show
me	out.’
Giles	was	waiting	in	the	drawing	room	when	Harry	and	Emma	came	down	for	dinner.
Marsden	poured	them	each	a	dry	sherry,	then	left	the	room	to	check	that	everything	was	running	to
schedule.
‘A	sad	occasion,’	said	Harry.	‘Let’s	drink	to	a	great	lady.’‘To	a	great	lady,’	said	Giles	and	Emma,	raising	their	glasses	as	Virginia	swept	into	the	room.
‘Were	you	talking	about	me,	by	any	chance?’	she	asked,	without	any	suggestion	of	irony.
Giles	laughed,	while	Emma	could	only	admire	the	magnificent	silk	taffeta	gown	that	swept	away	any
memories	of	Virginia’s	mourning	weeds.	Virginia	touched	her	diamond	and	ruby	necklace	to	make	sure
Emma	hadn’t	missed	it.
‘What	a	beautiful	piece	of	jewellery,’	said	Emma	on	cue,	as	Giles	handed	Virginia	a	gin	and	tonic.
‘Thank	you,’	said	Virginia.	‘It	belonged	to	my	great-grandmother,	the	Dowager	Duchess	of
Westmorland,	who	bequeathed	it	to	me	in	her	will.	Marsden,’	she	said,	turning	to	the	butler,	who	had	just
returned,	‘the	flowers	in	my	room	are	beginning	to	wilt.	Perhaps	you	could	replace	them	before	I	retire
this	evening.’
‘Certainly,	m’lady.	When	you	are	ready,	Sir	Giles,	dinner	is	served.’
‘I	don’t	know	about	you,’	said	Virginia,	‘but	I’m	famished.	Shall	we	go	through?’	Without	waiting	for	a
reply,	she	linked	arms	with	Giles	and	led	them	all	out	of	the	room.
During	the	meal,	Virginia	regaled	them	with	stories	about	her	ancestors,	making	them	sound	like	the
backbone	of	the	British	Empire.	Generals,	bishops,	cabinet	ministers,	and	of	course	a	few	black	sheep,
she	admitted	–	what	family	doesn’t	have	one	or	two	of	those?	She	hardly	drew	breath	until	the	dessert	had
been	cleared,	when	Giles	dropped	his	bombshell.	He	tapped	his	wine	glass	with	a	spoon	to	ensure	he	had
everyone’s	attention.
‘I	have	some	wonderful	news	to	share	with	you,’	he	announced.	‘Virginia	has	paid	me	the	great	honour
of	consenting	to	be	my	wife.’
An	uneasy	silence	followed,	until	Harry	eventually	said,	‘Many	congratulations.’	Emma	somehow
managed	a	weak	smile.	As	Marsden	uncorked	a	bottle	of	champagne	and	filled	their	glasses,	Harry
couldn’t	help	thinking	that	Elizabeth	had	only	been	in	her	grave	for	a	few	hours	before	Virginia	had
fulfilled	her	prophecy.
‘Of	course,	once	we’re	married,’	said	Virginia,	touching	Giles	gently	on	his	cheek,	‘there	are	bound	to
be	a	few	changes	around	here.	But	I	can’t	imagine	that	will	come	as	much	of	a	surprise,’	she	said,	smiling
warmly	at	Emma.
Giles	appeared	so	bewitched	by	her	every	word	that	he	simply	nodded	his	approval	whenever	she
came	to	the	end	of	a	sentence.
‘Giles	and	I,’	she	continued,	‘plan	to	move	into	Barrington	Hall	soon	after	we’re	married,	but	as	a
general	election	is	on	the	cards,	the	wedding	will	have	to	be	put	off	for	a	few	months,	which	should	give
you	more	than	enough	time	to	find	somewhere	else	to	live.’
Emma	put	down	her	glass	of	champagne	and	stared	at	her	brother,	who	didn’t	meet	her	gaze.
‘I’m	sure	you’ll	understand,	Emma,’	he	said,	‘that	we’d	like	to	begin	our	married	life	with	Virginia	as
the	mistress	of	Barrington	Hall.’
‘Of	course,’	said	Emma.	‘Frankly,	I’ll	be	only	too	happy	to	return	to	the	Manor	House,	where	I	spent	so
many	happy	years	as	a	child.’
Virginia	glared	at	her	fiancé.
‘Ah,’	Giles	eventually	managed.	‘I	had	intended	to	give	Virginia	the	Manor	House	as	a	wedding
present.’
Emma	and	Harry	glanced	at	each	other,	but	before	either	of	them	could	speak,	Virginia	said,	‘I	have
two	elderly	aunts,	both	of	whom	have	recently	been	widowed.	It	will	be	so	convenient	for	them.’
‘Giles,	have	you	even	considered	what	might	be	convenient	for	Harry	and	me?’	asked	Emma,	staring
directly	at	her	brother.
‘Perhaps	you	could	move	into	one	of	the	cottages	on	the	estate?’	suggested	Giles.
‘I	don’t	think	that	would	be	appropriate,	my	darling,’	said	Virginia,	taking	his	hand.	‘We	mustn’t	forget
that	I	plan	to	have	a	large	household,	in	keeping	with	my	position	as	the	daughter	of	an	earl.’‘I	have	no	desire	to	live	in	a	cottage	on	the	estate,’	said	Emma,	spitting	out	the	words.	‘We	can	afford	to
buy	our	own	home,	thank	you.’
‘I’m	sure	you	can,	my	dear,’	said	Virginia.	‘After	all,	Giles	tells	me	Harry	is	quite	a	successful	author.’
Emma	ignored	the	comment	and,	turning	to	her	brother,	said,	‘How	can	you	be	so	sure	that	the	Manor
House	is	yours	to	give	away?’
‘Because	some	time	ago,	Mama	took	me	through	her	will	line	by	line.	I’d	be	only	too	happy	to	share	its
contents	with	you	and	Harry	if	you	think	it	might	help	you	plan	for	the	future.’
‘I	really	don’t	think	it’s	appropriate	to	discuss	Mama’s	will	on	the	day	of	her	funeral.’
‘I	don’t	want	to	appear	insensitive,	my	dear,’	said	Virginia,	‘but	as	I’ll	be	returning	to	London	in	the
morning,	and	will	be	spending	most	of	my	time	preparing	for	the	wedding,	I	think	it	would	be	best	to	sort
out	these	matters	while	we’re	all	together.’	She	turned	to	Giles,	and	gave	him	the	same	sweet	smile.
‘I	agree	with	Virginia,’	said	Giles.	‘No	time	like	the	present.	And	I	can	assure	you,	Emma,	Mother	has
made	more	than	adequate	provision	for	both	you	and	Grace.	She	has	left	you	ten	thousand	pounds	each,
and	divided	her	jewellery	equally	between	you.	And	she’s	left	Sebastian	five	thousand,	which	he’ll
inherit	when	he	comes	of	age.’
‘Such	a	fortunate	child,’	said	Virginia.	‘She’s	also	given	her	Turner	of	Lock	at	Cleveland	to	Jessica,
but	it	will	remain	in	the	family	until	she’s	twenty-one.’	In	that	one	sentence,	Virginia	revealed	that	Giles
had	shared	the	details	of	his	mother’s	will	with	his	fiancée,	before	bothering	to	tell	either	Emma	or
Grace.	‘Most	generous,’	continued	Virginia,	‘remembering	that	Jessica	is	not	even	a	member	of	the
family.’
‘We	look	upon	Jessica	as	our	daughter,’	said	Harry	sharply,	‘and	treat	her	as	such.’
‘Half-sister,	I	think	would	be	more	accurate,’	said	Virginia.	‘And	we	mustn’t	forget	that	she’s	a
Barnardo’s	orphan,	as	well	as	being	Jewish.	I	suppose	it’s	because	I	come	from	Yorkshire	that	I	have	a
tendency	to	call	a	spade	a	spade.’
‘And	I	suppose	it’s	because	I	come	from	Gloucestershire,’	said	Emma,	‘that	I	have	a	tendency	to	call	a
scheming	bitch	a	scheming	bitch.’
Emma	rose	from	her	place	and	marched	out	of	the	room.	For	the	first	time	that	evening,	Giles	looked
embarrassed.	Harry	was	now	certain	that	neither	Giles	nor	Virginia	was	aware	that	Elizabeth	had
executed	a	new	will.	He	chose	his	words	carefully.
‘Emma’s	a	little	overwrought	following	the	funeral.	I’m	sure	she’ll	have	recovered	by	the	morning.’
He	folded	his	napkin,	bade	them	goodnight	and	left	the	room	without	another	word.
Virginia	looked	at	her	fiancé.	‘You	were	magnificent,	Bunny.	But	I	have	to	say,	what	a	touchy	lot	your
family	are,	though	I	suppose	that’s	only	to	be	expected	after	all	they’ve	been	through.	However,	I	fear	it
doesn’t	augur	well	for	the	future.’10
‘T HIS	IS	THE 	BBC	Home	Service.	Here	is	the	news,	and	this	is	Alvar	Lidell	reading	it.	At	ten	o’clock	this
morning,	the	prime	minister,	Mr	Attlee,	requested	an	audience	with	the	King	and	asked	His	Majesty’s
permission	to	dissolve	Parliament	and	call	a	general	election.	Mr	Attlee	returned	to	the	House	of
Commons,	and	announced	that	an	election	would	be	held	on	Thursday,	October	twenty-fifth.’
The	following	day,	622	members	packed	their	bags,	cleared	their	lockers,	bade	farewell	to	their
colleagues	and	returned	to	their	constituencies	to	prepare	for	battle.	Among	them	was	Sir	Giles
Barrington,	the	Labour	candidate	for	Bristol	Docklands.
Over	breakfast	one	morning	during	the	second	week	of	the	campaign,	Giles	told	Harry	and	Emma	that
Virginia	would	not	be	joining	him	in	the	run-up	to	the	election.	Emma	didn’t	attempt	to	hide	her	relief.
‘Virginia	feels	she	might	even	lose	me	votes,’	admitted	Giles.	‘After	all,	no	member	of	her	family	has
ever	been	known	to	vote	Labour.	One	or	two	may	have	supported	the	odd	Liberal,	but	never	Labour.’
Harry	laughed.	‘At	least	we	have	that	in	common.’
‘If	Labour	were	to	win	the	election,’	said	Emma,	‘do	you	think	Mr	Attlee	might	ask	you	to	join	the
Cabinet?’
‘Heaven	knows.	That	man	plays	his	cards	so	close	to	his	chest	even	he	can’t	see	them.	In	any	case,	if
you	believe	the	polls,	the	election	is	too	close	to	call,	so	there’s	not	much	point	in	dreaming	about	red
boxes	until	after	we	know	the	result.’
‘My	bet,’	said	Harry,	‘is	that	Churchill	will	scrape	home	this	time.	Mind	you,	only	the	British	could
kick	a	prime	minister	out	of	office	after	he’d	just	won	a	war.’
Giles	glanced	at	his	watch.	‘Can’t	sit	around	chatting,’	he	said.	‘I’m	meant	to	be	canvassing	in
Coronation	Road.	Care	to	join	me,	Harry?’	he	said	with	a	grin.
‘You	must	be	joking.	Can	you	see	me	asking	people	to	vote	for	you?	I’d	turn	off	more	people	than
Virginia.’
‘Why	not?’	said	Emma.	‘You’ve	handed	in	your	latest	manuscript	to	the	publisher,	and	you’re	always
telling	everyone	firsthand	experience	is	more	worthwhile	than	sitting	in	a	library	checking	endless	facts.’
‘But	I’ve	got	a	busy	day	ahead	of	me,’	protested	Harry.
‘Of	course	you	have,’	said	Emma.	‘Now	let	me	see,	you’re	taking	Jessica	to	school	this	morning	and,
oh	yes,	you’re	picking	her	up	this	afternoon	and	bringing	her	home.’
‘Oh	all	right.	I’ll	join	you,’	said	Harry.	‘But	strictly	as	an	observer,	you	understand.’‘Good	afternoon,	sir,	my	name	is	Giles	Barrington.	I	hope	I	can	count	on	your	support	at	the	general
election	on	October	twenty-fifth?’	he	said	as	he	stopped	to	chat	to	a	constituent.
‘You	certainly	can,	Mr	Barrington.	I	always	vote	Tory.’
‘Thank	you,’	said	Giles,	quickly	moving	on	to	the	next	voter.
‘But	you’re	the	Labour	candidate,’	Harry	reminded	his	brother-in-law.
‘There’s	no	mention	of	the	parties	on	the	ballot	paper,’	said	Giles,	‘only	the	candidates’	names.	So	why
disillusion	him?	Good	afternoon,	my	name	is	Giles	Barrington,	and	I	was	hoping—’
‘And	you	can	go	on	hoping,	because	I	won’t	be	voting	for	a	stuck-up	toff.’
‘But	I’m	the	Labour	candidate,’	protested	Giles.
‘Doesn’t	stop	you	being	a	toff.	You’re	as	bad	as	that	Frank	Pakenham	fellow,	a	traitor	to	your	class.’
Harry	tried	not	to	laugh	as	the	man	walked	away.
‘Good	afternoon,	madam,	my	name	is	Giles	Barrington.’
‘Oh,	how	nice	to	meet	you,	Sir	Giles.	I’ve	been	a	great	admirer	of	yours	ever	since	you	won	the	MC	at
Tobruk.’	Giles	bowed	low.	‘And	although	I	would	normally	vote	Liberal,	on	this	occasion	you	can	rely	on
me.’
‘Thank	you,	madam,’	said	Giles.
She	turned	to	Harry,	who	smiled	and	raised	his	hat.	‘And	you	needn’t	bother	raising	your	hat	to	me,	Mr
Clifton,	because	I	know	you	were	born	in	Still	House	Lane,	and	it’s	disgraceful	that	you	vote	Tory.	You’re
a	traitor	to	your	class,’	she	added	before	marching	off.
It	was	Giles’s	turn	to	try	not	to	laugh.
‘I	don’t	think	I’m	cut	out	for	politics,’	said	Harry.
‘Good	afternoon,	sir,	my	name	is—’
‘—Giles	Barrington.	Yes,	I	know,’	the	man	said,	refusing	Giles’s	outstretched	hand.	‘You	shook	hands
with	me	half	an	hour	ago,	Mr	Barrington,	and	I	told	you	I’d	be	voting	for	you.	But	now	I’m	not	so	sure.’
‘Is	it	always	this	bad?’	asked	Harry.
‘Oh,	it	can	be	far	worse.	But	if	you	place	your	head	in	the	stocks,	don’t	be	surprised	if	there	are	people
who	are	only	too	happy	to	throw	the	occasional	rotten	tomato	in	your	direction.’
‘I	would	never	make	a	politician,’	said	Harry.	‘I	take	everything	too	personally.’
‘Then	you’ll	probably	end	up	in	the	House	of	Lords,’	said	Giles,	coming	to	a	halt	outside	a	pub.	‘I	think
a	quick	half	pint	is	called	for,	before	we	return	to	the	battlefield.’
‘I	don’t	think	I’ve	been	in	this	pub	before,’	said	Harry,	looking	up	at	a	flapping	sign	with	a	Volunteer
beckoning	them	in.
‘Me	neither.	But	come	the	day	of	the	election,	I’ll	have	had	a	drink	in	every	hostelry	in	the	constituency.
Pub	landlords	are	always	happy	to	express	an	opinion.’
‘Who’d	want	to	be	a	Member	of	Parliament?’
‘If	you	have	to	ask	that	question,’	said	Giles	as	they	entered	the	pub,	‘you’ll	never	understand	the	thrill
of	fighting	an	election,	taking	your	seat	in	the	House	of	Commons	and	playing	a	role,	however	minor,	in
governing	your	country.	It’s	like	war	without	the	bullets.’
Harry	headed	for	a	quiet	alcove	in	a	corner	of	the	pub,	while	Giles	took	a	seat	at	the	bar.	He	was
chatting	to	the	barman	when	Harry	returned	to	join	him.
‘Sorry,	old	fellow,’	said	Giles.	‘I	can’t	hide	away	in	a	corner.	Have	to	be	seen	at	all	times,	even	when
I’m	taking	a	break.’
‘But	there	are	some	confidential	matters	I	was	hoping	to	discuss	with	you,’	said	Harry.
‘Then	you’ll	just	have	to	lower	your	voice.	Two	half	pints	of	bitter,	please,	barman,’	said	Giles.	He
settled	back	to	listen	to	what	Harry	had	to	say,	in	between	being	slapped	on	the	back	and	told	by	several
customers	–	not	all	of	them	sober	–	how	to	run	the	country,	and	called	everything	from	‘sir’	to	‘you
bastard’.‘So,	how’s	my	nephew	getting	on	at	his	new	school?’	asked	Giles	after	he’d	drained	his	glass.
‘Doesn’t	seem	to	be	enjoying	Beechcroft	any	more	than	he	did	St	Bede’s.	I’ve	had	a	word	with	his
housemaster,	and	all	he	said	was	that	Seb’s	very	bright,	and	almost	certain	to	be	offered	a	place	at
Oxford,	but	still	doesn’t	make	friends	easily.’
‘I’m	sorry	to	hear	that,’	said	Giles.	‘Perhaps	he’s	just	shy.	After	all,	no	one	loved	you	when	you	first
went	to	St	Bede’s.’	He	turned	back	to	the	barman.	‘Two	more	halves,	please.’
‘Coming	right	up,	sir.’
‘And	how’s	my	favourite	girlfriend?’	asked	Giles.
‘If	you’re	referring	to	Jessica,’	said	Harry,	‘you’ll	have	to	join	a	long	queue.	Everybody	loves	that	little
girl,	from	Cleopatra	to	the	postman,	but	she	only	loves	her	dad.’
‘When	will	you	tell	her	who	her	real	father	is?’	said	Giles,	lowering	his	voice.
‘I	keep	asking	myself	that	question.	And	you	don’t	have	to	tell	me	I’m	storing	up	trouble	for	the	future,
but	I	never	seem	to	find	the	right	time.’
‘There	won’t	ever	be	a	right	time,’	said	Giles.	‘But	don’t	leave	it	too	long,	because	one	thing’s	certain,
Emma	will	never	tell	her,	and	I’m	fairly	certain	Seb’s	already	worked	it	out	for	himself.’
‘What	makes	you	say	that?’
‘Not	here,’	said	Giles,	as	another	constituent	slapped	him	on	the	back.
The	barman	placed	two	half	pints	on	the	counter.	‘That’ll	be	ninepence,	sir.’
As	Harry	had	paid	for	the	first	round,	he	assumed	it	must	be	Giles’s	turn.
‘Sorry,’	said	Giles,	‘but	I’m	not	allowed	to	pay.’
‘Not	allowed	to	pay?’
‘No.	A	candidate	is	not	permitted	to	buy	any	drinks	during	an	election	campaign.’
‘Ah,’	said	Harry,	‘at	last	I’ve	found	a	reason	for	wanting	to	be	an	MP.	But	why,	pray?’
‘It	might	be	thought	I	was	trying	to	buy	your	vote.	Goes	back	to	the	reform	of	the	rotten	boroughs.’
‘I’d	want	a	damn	sight	more	than	half	a	pint	before	I’d	consider	voting	for	you,’	said	Harry.
‘Keep	your	voice	down,’	said	Giles.	‘After	all,	if	my	brother-in-law	isn’t	willing	to	vote	for	me,	the
press	are	bound	to	ask,	why	should	anyone	else?’
‘As	this	clearly	isn’t	the	time	or	the	place	for	a	conversation	on	family	matters,	is	there	any	chance	of
you	joining	Emma	and	me	for	dinner	on	Sunday	evening?’
‘Not	a	hope.	I	have	three	church	services	to	attend	on	Sunday,	and	don’t	forget,	it’s	the	last	Sunday
before	the	election.’
‘Oh	God,’	said	Harry,	‘is	the	election	next	Thursday?’
‘Damn,’	said	Giles.	‘It’s	a	golden	rule	that	you	never	remind	a	Tory	of	the	date	of	the	election.	Now	I’ll
have	to	rely	on	God	to	support	me,	and	I’m	still	not	altogether	sure	which	side	he’s	on.	I	shall	fall	on	my
knees	on	Sunday	morning	at	Matins,	seek	his	guidance	during	Vespers	and	pray	during	evensong,	and	then
hope	the	vote	will	end	up	two	to	one	in	my	favour.’
‘Do	you	really	have	to	go	to	such	extremes,	just	to	win	a	few	more	votes?’
‘Of	course	you	do	if	you	are	contesting	a	marginal	constituency.	And	don’t	forget,	church	services	get
far	bigger	turnouts	than	I	ever	manage	at	my	political	meetings.’
‘But	I	thought	the	church	was	meant	to	be	neutral?’
‘And	so	it	should	be,	but	vicars	will	always	tell	you	they	have	absolutely	no	interest	in	politics,	while
having	few	qualms	about	letting	their	parishioners	know	exactly	which	party	they	will	be	voting	for,	and
often	from	the	pulpit.’
‘Do	you	want	another	half,	as	I’m	paying?’	asked	Harry.
‘No.	I	can’t	waste	any	more	time	chatting	to	you.	You	not	only	don’t	have	a	vote	in	this	constituency,	but
even	if	you	did,	you	wouldn’t	be	backing	me.’	He	leapt	off	his	stool,	shook	hands	with	the	barman	and
dashed	out	of	the	pub	on	to	the	pavement,	where	he	smiled	at	the	first	person	he	saw.‘Good	afternoon,	sir.	My	name	is	Giles	Barrington	and	I	hope	I	can	count	on	your	support	next
Thursday	at	the	general	election.’
‘I	don’t	live	in	this	constituency,	mate,	I’m	down	from	Birmingham	for	the	day.’
On	the	day	of	the	election,	Giles’s	agent,	Griff	Haskins,	told	the	candidate	he	felt	confident	the	voters	of
Bristol	Docklands	would	keep	faith	with	their	member	and	send	him	back	to	represent	them	in	the	House
of	Commons,	even	if	it	was	with	a	slightly	reduced	majority.	However,	he	was	not	convinced	that	the
Labour	Party	would	hold	on	to	power.
Griff	turned	out	to	be	right	on	both	counts,	because	at	three	o’clock	on	the	morning	of	27	October	1951,
the	returning	officer	announced	that	after	three	recounts,	Sir	Giles	Barrington	was	duly	elected	as	the
Member	of	Parliament	for	Bristol	Docklands,	with	a	majority	of	414	votes.
Once	all	the	results	across	the	nation	had	come	in,	the	Conservative	Party	ended	up	with	an	overall
majority	of	17	seats,	and	Winston	Churchill	once	again	found	himself	residing	at	No.10	Downing	Street.
The	first	election	he’d	won	as	Conservative	leader.
The	following	Monday,	Giles	drove	up	to	London	and	took	his	seat	in	the	House	of	Commons.	The
chatter	in	the	corridors	was	that	as	the	Tories	only	had	a	majority	of	17,	it	wouldn’t	be	long	before
another	election	had	to	be	called.
Giles	knew	that	whenever	that	took	place,	with	a	majority	of	only	414,	he	would	be	fighting	for	his
political	life,	and	if	he	didn’t	win	it	could	well	be	the	end	of	his	career	as	an	MP.11
T HE	BUTLER	HANDED 	Sir	Giles	his	post	on	a	silver	tray.	Giles	flicked	quickly	through	it,	as	he	did	every
morning,	separating	the	long,	thin,	brown	envelopes,	which	he	placed	to	one	side,	from	the	white,	square
ones	which	he	would	open	immediately.	Among	the	envelopes	that	caught	his	attention	that	morning	was	a
long,	thin	white	one	that	bore	a	Bristol	postmark.	He	tore	it	open.
He	pulled	out	a	single	sheet	of	paper	addressed	To	Whom	It	May	Concern.	Once	he’d	read	it,	he
looked	up	and	smiled	at	Virginia,	who	had	joined	him	for	a	late	breakfast.
‘It	will	all	be	done	and	dusted	next	Wednesday,’	he	announced.
Virginia	didn’t	look	up	from	her	copy	of	the	Daily	Express.	She	always	began	the	morning	with	a	cup
of	black	coffee	and	William	Hickey,	so	she	could	find	out	what	her	friends	were	up	to,	and	which
debutantes	were	hoping	to	be	presented	at	court	that	year,	and	which	had	no	chance.
‘What	will	be	done	and	dusted?’	she	asked,	still	not	looking	up.
‘Mama’s	will.’
Virginia	forgot	all	about	hopeful	debutantes,	folded	her	newspaper	and	smiled	sweetly	at	Giles.	‘Tell
me	more,	my	darling.’
‘The	reading	of	the	will	is	to	take	place	in	Bristol	next	Wednesday.	We	could	drive	down	on	Tuesday
afternoon,	spend	the	night	at	the	Hall,	and	attend	the	reading	the	next	day.’
‘What	time	will	it	be	read?’
Giles	glanced	at	the	letter	once	again.	‘Eleven	o’clock,	in	the	offices	of	Marshall,	Baker	and	Siddons.’
‘Would	you	mind	terribly,	Bunny,	if	we	drove	down	early	on	the	Wednesday	morning?	I	don’t	think	I
can	face	another	evening	being	nice	to	your	chippy	sister.’
Giles	was	about	to	say	something,	but	changed	his	mind.	‘Of	course,	my	love.’
‘Stop	calling	me	“my	love”,	Bunny,	it’s	dreadfully	common.’
‘What	sort	of	day	have	you	got	ahead	of	you,	my	darling?’
‘Hectic,	as	usual.	I	never	seem	to	stop	nowadays.	Another	dress	fitting	this	morning,	lunch	with	the
bridesmaids,	and	then	this	afternoon	I	have	an	appointment	with	the	caterers,	who	are	pressing	me	on
numbers.’
‘What’s	the	latest?’	asked	Giles.
‘Just	over	two	hundred	from	my	side,	and	another	hundred	and	thirty	from	yours.	I	was	rather	hoping	to
send	out	the	invitations	next	week.’
‘That’s	fine	by	me,’	said	Giles.	‘Which	reminds	me,’	he	added,	‘the	speaker	has	granted	my	request	to
use	the	Commons’	terrace	for	the	reception,	so	perhaps	we	ought	to	invite	him	as	well.’
‘Of	course,	Bunny.	After	all,	he	is	a	Conservative.’
‘And	possibly	Mr	Attlee,’	suggested	Giles	tentatively.
‘I’m	not	sure	how	Papa	would	feel	about	the	leader	of	the	Labour	Party	attending	his	only	daughter’swedding.	Perhaps	I	could	ask	him	to	invite	Mr	Churchill.’
The	following	Wednesday,	Giles	drove	his	Jaguar	over	to	Cadogan	Gardens	and	parked	outside	Virginia’s
flat.	He	rang	the	front	doorbell,	expecting	to	join	his	fiancée	for	breakfast.
‘Lady	Virginia	has	not	come	down	yet,	sir,’	said	the	butler.	‘But	if	you’d	care	to	wait	in	the	drawing
room,	I	can	bring	you	a	cup	of	coffee	and	the	morning	papers.’
‘Thank	you,	Mason,’	Giles	said	to	the	butler,	who	had	once	confessed	to	him	privately	that	he	voted
Labour.
Giles	settled	down	in	a	comfortable	chair,	and	was	offered	a	choice	of	the	Express	or	the	Telegraph.
He	settled	on	the	Telegraph,	because	the	headline	on	the	front	page	caught	his	attention:	Eisenhower
announces	he	will	stand	for	president.	The	decision	didn’t	surprise	Giles,	although	he	was	interested	to
learn	that	the	general	would	be	standing	as	a	Republican,	because	until	recently	no	one	seemed	quite	sure
which	party	he	supported,	after	both	the	Democrats	and	the	Republicans	had	made	overtures	to	him.
Giles	glanced	at	his	watch	every	few	minutes,	but	there	was	no	sign	of	Virginia.	When	the	clock	on	the
mantelpiece	struck	the	half	hour,	he	turned	his	attention	to	an	article	on	page	seven,	which	suggested
Britain	was	considering	building	its	first	motorway.	The	stalemate	in	the	Korean	War	was	covered	on	the
parliamentary	pages,	and	Giles’s	speech	on	a	forty-eight-hour	week	for	all	workers	and	every	hour
beyond	that	being	treated	as	overtime	was	quoted	at	length,	with	an	editorial	condemning	his	views.	He
smiled.	After	all,	it	was	the	Telegraph.	Giles	was	reading	an	announcement	in	the	court	circular	that
Princess	Elizabeth	would	be	embarking	on	a	tour	of	Africa	in	January,	when	Virginia	burst	into	the	room.
‘I’m	so	sorry	to	have	kept	you	waiting,	my	darling,	but	I	just	couldn’t	decide	what	to	wear.’
He	leapt	up	and	kissed	his	fiancée	on	both	cheeks,	took	a	pace	back,	and	once	again	thought	how	lucky
he	was	that	this	beautiful	woman	had	ever	given	him	a	second	look.
‘You	look	fabulous,’	he	said,	admiring	a	yellow	dress	he’d	never	seen	before,	which	emphasized	her
slim,	graceful	figure.
‘A	little	risqué	perhaps	for	the	reading	of	a	will?’	suggested	Virginia	as	she	spun	round	in	a	circle.
‘Certainly	not,’	said	Giles.	‘In	fact,	the	moment	you	walk	into	the	room,	no	one	will	be	thinking	of
anything	else.’
‘I	should	hope	not,’	said	Virginia	as	she	checked	her	watch.	‘Heavens,	is	it	really	that	late?	We’d	better
skip	breakfast,	Bunny,	if	we’re	going	to	be	on	time.	Not	that	we	don’t	already	know	the	contents	of	your
mother’s	will,	but	it	must	appear	as	if	we	don’t.’
On	the	way	down	to	Bristol,	Virginia	brought	Giles	up	to	date	on	the	latest	wedding	arrangements.	He
was	a	little	disappointed	that	she	didn’t	ask	how	his	speech	from	the	front	bench	had	been	received	the
previous	day,	but	then,	William	Hickey	hadn’t	been	in	the	press	gallery.	It	wasn’t	until	they	were	on	the
Great	West	Road	that	Virginia	said	something	that	demanded	his	full	attention.
‘The	first	thing	we’ll	have	to	do	once	the	will	has	been	executed	is	look	for	a	replacement	for
Marsden.’
‘But	he’s	been	with	the	family	for	over	thirty	years,’	said	Giles.	‘In	fact,	I	can’t	remember	when	he
wasn’t	there.’
‘Which	is	part	of	the	problem.	But	don’t	worry	yourself,	my	darling,	I	think	I	may	have	found	the
perfect	replacement.’
‘But—’
‘And	if	you	feel	that	strongly	about	it,	Bunny,	Marsden	can	always	go	and	work	at	the	Manor	House,
and	take	care	of	my	aunts.’
‘But—’‘And	while	I’m	on	the	subject	of	replacements,’	continued	Virginia,	‘it’s	high	time	we	had	a	serious
talk	about	Jackie.’
‘My	personal	secretary?’
‘She’s	far	too	personal,	in	my	opinion.	I	can’t	pretend	that	I	approve	of	this	modern	habit	of	staff
calling	their	bosses	by	their	Christian	names.	No	doubt	it’s	all	part	of	the	Labour	Party’s	absurd	notion	of
equality.	However,	I	felt	it	necessary	to	remind	her	that	it’s	Lady	Virginia.’
‘I	am	sorry,’	said	Giles.	‘She’s	usually	so	polite.’
‘With	you	perhaps,	but	when	I	rang	yesterday,	she	asked	me	to	hold	the	line,	something	I’m	not	in	the
habit	of	doing.’
‘I’ll	have	a	word	with	her	about	it.’
‘Please	don’t	bother,’	said	Virginia,	which	came	as	a	relief	to	Giles.	‘Because	I	shall	not	be	contacting
your	office	again	while	she	remains	on	your	staff.’
‘Isn’t	that	a	little	extreme?	After	all,	she	does	a	first-class	job,	and	I’d	find	it	almost	impossible	to
replace	her.’
Virginia	leant	over	and	kissed	him	on	the	cheek.	‘I	do	hope,	Bunny,	that	I	will	be	the	only	person	you
will	find	it	almost	impossible	to	replace.’
Mr	Siddons	entered	the	room,	and	was	not	surprised	to	find	that	everyone	who	had	received	the	To	Whom
It	May	Concern	letter	was	present.	He	sat	down	at	his	desk	and	peered	at	the	hopeful	faces.
In	the	front	row	sat	Sir	Giles	Barrington	and	his	fiancée,	Lady	Virginia	Fenwick,	who	was	even	more
striking	in	person	than	the	photograph	he’d	seen	of	her	in	Country	Life	soon	after	the	couple	had
announced	their	engagement.	Mr	Siddons	was	looking	forward	to	making	her	acquaintance.
In	the	second	row,	seated	directly	behind	them,	were	Mr	Harry	Clifton	and	his	wife	Emma,	who	was
sitting	next	to	her	sister,	Grace.	It	amused	him	to	see	that	Miss	Barrington	was	wearing	blue	stockings.
Mr	and	Mrs	Holcombe	sat	in	the	third	row,	alongside	the	Reverend	Mr	Donaldson	and	a	lady	who	was
dressed	in	a	matron’s	uniform.	The	back	two	rows	were	filled	with	staff	who	had	served	the	Barrington
family	for	many	years,	their	selection	of	seats	revealing	their	station.
Mr	Siddons	perched	a	pair	of	half-moon	spectacles	on	the	end	of	his	nose	and	cleared	his	throat	to
indicate	that	proceedings	were	about	to	begin.
He	looked	over	the	top	of	his	spectacles	at	the	assembled	gathering,	before	making	his	opening
remarks.	He	didn’t	require	any	notes,	as	this	was	a	responsibility	he	carried	out	on	a	regular	basis.
‘Ladies	and	gentlemen,’	he	began.	‘My	name	is	Desmond	Siddons,	and	I	have	had	the	privilege	of	being
the	Barrington	family’s	solicitor	for	the	past	twenty-three	years,	although	it	will	be	some	time	before	I
equal	the	record	of	my	father,	whose	association	with	the	family	covered	the	careers	of	both	Sir	Walter
and	Sir	Hugo	Barrington.	However,	I	digress.’	Mr	Siddons	thought	Lady	Virginia	looked	as	if	she	agreed
with	him.
‘I	am	in	possession,’	he	continued,	‘of	the	last	will	and	testament	of	Elizabeth	May	Barrington,	which
was	executed	by	me	at	her	request,	and	signed	in	the	presence	of	two	independent	witnesses.	Therefore
this	document,’	he	continued,	holding	it	up	for	all	to	see,	‘renders	any	previous	will	null	and	void.
‘I	shall	not	waste	your	time	going	over	the	pages	of	legal	jargon	that	are	demanded	by	the	law,	but
rather	I	will	concentrate	on	the	several	relevant	bequests	left	by	her	ladyship.	Should	anyone	wish	to
study	the	will	in	greater	detail	later,	they	are	most	welcome	to	do	so.’
Mr	Siddons	looked	down,	turned	the	page	and	adjusted	his	glasses	before	continuing.
‘Several	charities	close	to	the	deceased’s	heart	are	named	in	the	will.	They	include	the	parish	church	of
St	Andrew’s,	Dr	Barnardo’s	homes,	and	the	hospital	that	nursed	Lady	Barrington	so	compassionatelythrough	her	final	days.	Each	of	these	establishments	will	receive	a	bequest	of	five	hundred	pounds.’
Mr	Siddons	readjusted	his	spectacles	once	again.
‘I	shall	now	move	on	to	those	individuals	who	have	served	the	Barrington	household	over	the	years.
Every	member	of	staff	who	was	employed	by	Lady	Barrington	for	more	than	five	years	will	receive	an
additional	year’s	salary,	while	the	resident	housekeeper	and	butler	will	also	be	granted	a	further	five
hundred	pounds	each.’
Marsden	bowed	his	head	and	mouthed	the	words,	thank	you,	m’lady.
‘I	now	turn	to	Mrs	Holcombe,	formerly	Mrs	Arthur	Clifton.	To	her	is	bequeathed	the	Victorian	brooch
that	Lady	Barrington	wore	on	the	day	of	her	daughter’s	wedding,	and	that	she	hopes,	and	I	quote	her
testament,	will	help	Mrs	Holcombe	recall	the	many	happy	times	they	shared	together.’
Maisie	smiled,	but	could	only	wonder	when	she	could	possibly	wear	such	a	magnificent	piece	of
jewellery.
Mr	Siddons	turned	another	page,	and	pushed	his	half-moon	spectacles	back	up	his	nose	before	he
continued.
‘I	leave	to	Jessica	Clifton,	née	Piotrovska,	my	grandfather’s	favourite	watercolour	of	the	Lock	at
Cleveland	by	Turner.	I	hope	it	will	inspire	her,	for	I	believe	she	possesses	a	remarkable	gift	that	should
be	given	every	opportunity	to	blossom.’
Giles	nodded,	well	remembering	those	words	when	his	mother	had	explained	why	she	had	wanted
Jessica	to	inherit	the	coveted	Turner.
‘And	to	my	grandson,	Sebastian	Arthur	Clifton,’	Mr	Siddons	continued,	‘I	bequeath	the	sum	of	five
thousand	pounds,	which	he	will	receive	when	he	comes	of	age,	on	March	the	ninth	1961.’
Giles	nodded	again.	No	surprise	there,	he	thought.
‘The	remainder	of	my	estate,	including	twenty-two	per	cent	of	Barrington	Shipping,	as	well	as	the
Manor	House	–’	Mr	Siddons	couldn’t	resist	a	glance	in	the	direction	of	Lady	Virginia	Fenwick,	who	was
sitting	on	the	edge	of	her	seat	–	‘is	to	be	left	to	my	beloved	.	.	.	daughters	Emma	and	Grace,	to	dispose	of
as	they	see	fit,	with	the	exception	of	my	Siamese	cat,	Cleopatra,	who	I	leave	to	Lady	Virginia	Fenwick,
because	they	have	so	much	in	common.	They	are	both	beautiful,	well-groomed,	vain,	cunning,
manipulative	predators,	who	assume	that	everyone	else	was	put	on	earth	to	serve	them,	including	my
besotted	son,	who	I	can	only	pray	will	break	from	the	spell	she	has	cast	on	him	before	it	is	too	late.’
It	was	clear	to	Mr	Siddons	from	the	looks	of	shock	and	the	whispered	chattering	that	broke	out	from	all
quarters	of	the	room	that	no	one	had	expected	this,	although	he	did	observe	that	Mr	Clifton	remained
remarkably	calm.	Calm	was	not	a	word	that	would	have	described	Lady	Virginia,	who	was	whispering
something	in	Giles’s	ear.
‘That	completes	the	reading	of	the	will,’	said	Mr	Siddons.	‘If	there	are	any	questions,	I	will	be	happy
to	answer	them.’
‘Just	one,’	said	Giles,	before	anyone	else	had	a	chance	to	speak.	‘How	long	do	I	have	to	contest	the
will?’
‘You	can	lodge	an	appeal	against	judgment	in	the	High	Court	at	any	time	during	the	next	twenty-eight
days,	Sir	Giles,’	said	Mr	Siddons,	having	anticipated	the	question,	and	the	questioner.
If	there	were	any	other	questions,	Sir	Giles	and	Lady	Virginia	did	not	hear	them,	as	they	stormed	out	of
the	room	without	another	word.12
‘I’ LL	DO	ANYTHING ,	my	darling,’	he	said,	‘but	please	don’t	break	off	our	engagement.’
‘How	can	I	be	expected	to	face	the	world	after	your	mother	humiliated	me	in	front	of	your	family,	your
friends	and	even	the	servants?’
‘I	understand,’	said	Giles,	‘of	course	I	do,	but	Mother	was	clearly	not	in	her	right	mind.	She	can’t	have
realized	what	she	was	doing.’
‘You	said	you’ll	do	anything?’	said	Virginia,	toying	with	her	engagement	ring.
‘Anything,	my	darling.’
‘The	first	thing	you	must	do	is	sack	your	secretary.	And	her	replacement	must	meet	with	my	approval.’
‘Consider	it	done,’	said	Giles	meekly.
‘And	tomorrow,	you	will	appoint	a	leading	firm	of	lawyers	to	contest	the	will	and,	whatever	the
consequences,	you’ll	fight	tooth	and	nail	to	make	sure	we	win.’
‘I’ve	already	consulted	Sir	Cuthbert	Makins	KC.’
‘Tooth	and	nail,’	repeated	Virginia.
‘Tooth	and	nail,’	said	Giles.	‘Anything	else?’
‘Yes.	When	the	wedding	invitations	are	sent	out	next	week,	I,	and	I	alone,	will	approve	the	guest	list.’
‘But	that	could	mean—’
‘It	will.	Because	I	want	everyone	who	was	in	that	room	to	know	what	it	feels	like	to	be	rejected.’	Giles
bowed	his	head.	‘Ah,	I	see,’	said	Virginia,	removing	her	engagement	ring.	‘So	you	didn’t	really	mean
you’d	do	anything.’
‘Yes	I	did,	my	darling.	I	agree,	you	alone	can	decide	who’s	invited	to	the	wedding.’
‘And	finally,’	said	Virginia,	‘you	will	instruct	Mr	Siddons	to	issue	a	court	order	removing	every
member	of	the	Clifton	family	from	Barrington	Hall.’
‘But	where	will	they	live?’
‘I	don’t	give	a	damn	where	they	live,’	said	Virginia.	‘The	time	has	come	for	you	to	decide	whether	you
want	to	spend	the	rest	of	your	life	with	me,	or	with	them.’
‘I	want	to	spend	the	rest	of	my	life	with	you,’	said	Giles.
‘Then	that’s	settled,	Bunny,’	said	Virginia,	as	she	put	the	engagement	ring	back	on,	and	began	to	undo
the	buttons	on	the	front	of	her	dress.
Harry	was	reading	The	Times,	and	Emma	the	Telegraph,	when	the	phone	rang.	The	door	opened	and
Denby	entered	the	breakfast	room.
‘It’s	your	publisher,	Mr	Collins,	on	the	line,	sir.	He	wondered	if	he	might	have	a	word	with	you.’
‘I	doubt	if	that’s	how	he	put	it,’	said	Harry	as	he	folded	his	newspaper.Emma	was	so	engrossed	in	the	article	she	was	reading	that	she	didn’t	even	look	up	when	her	husband
left	the	room.	She	had	come	to	the	end	of	it	by	the	time	he	returned.
‘Let	me	guess,’	she	said.
‘Billy’s	had	calls	from	most	of	the	national	papers,	as	well	as	the	BBC,	asking	if	I	want	to	make	a
statement.’
‘What	did	you	say?’
‘No	comment.	I	told	him	there	was	no	need	to	add	fuel	to	this	particular	fire.’
‘I	can’t	imagine	that	will	satisfy	Billy	Collins,’	said	Emma.	‘All	he’s	interested	in	is	selling	books.’
‘He	didn’t	expect	anything	else,	and	he’s	not	complaining.	He	told	me	he’ll	be	shipping	a	third	reprint
of	the	paperback	into	the	bookshops	early	next	week.’
‘Would	you	like	to	hear	how	the	Telegraph	is	reporting	it?’
‘Do	I	have	to?’	said	Harry	as	he	sat	back	down	at	the	breakfast	table.
Emma	ignored	the	comment	and	began	reading	out	loud.
‘	“The	wedding	took	place	yesterday	of	Sir	Giles	Barrington	MC	MP	and	The	Lady	Virginia	Fenwick,
the	only	daughter	of	the	Ninth	Earl	of	Fenwick.	The	bride	wore	a	gown	designed	by	Mr	Norman—”’
‘At	least	spare	me	that,’	said	Harry.
Emma	skipped	a	couple	of	paragraphs.	‘“Four	hundred	guests	attended	the	ceremony,	which	was	held
at	the	Church	of	St	Margaret’s,	Westminster.	The	service	was	conducted	by	the	Right	Reverend	George
Hastings,	Bishop	of	Ripon.	Afterwards,	a	reception	was	held	on	the	terrace	of	the	House	of	Commons.
Among	the	guests	were	Her	Royal	Highness	Princess	Margaret,	The	Earl	Mountbatten	of	Burma,	The
Right	Hon.	Clement	Attlee,	Leader	of	the	Opposition,	and	The	Right	Hon.	Mr	William	Morrison,	speaker
of	the	House	of	Commons.	The	list	of	guests	who	attended	the	wedding	makes	interesting	reading,	but	far
more	fascinating	are	the	names	of	those	who	were	absent,	either	because	they	did	not	receive	an
invitation,	or	because	they	did	not	wish	to	attend.	Not	one	member	of	the	Barrington	family	other	than	Sir
Giles	himself	was	on	the	guest	list.	The	absence	of	his	two	sisters,	Mrs	Emma	Clifton	and	Miss	Grace
Barrington,	as	well	as	his	brother-in-law,	Harry	Clifton,	the	popular	author,	remains	something	of	a
mystery,	especially	as	it	was	announced	some	weeks	ago	that	he	would	be	Sir	Giles’s	best	man.”	’
‘So	who	was	the	best	man?’	asked	Harry.
‘Dr	Algernon	Deakins	of	Balliol	College,	Oxford.’
‘Dear	Deakins,’	said	Harry.	‘An	excellent	choice.	He	certainly	would	have	been	on	time,	and	there
would	have	been	no	chance	of	him	mislaying	the	ring.	Is	there	anything	else?’
‘I’m	afraid	so.	“What	makes	this	even	more	of	a	mystery	is	that	six	years	ago,	when	the	case	of
Barrington	v.	Clifton	was	before	the	House	of	Lords	and	a	vote	was	taken	to	decide	who	should	inherit
the	Barrington	title	and	estates,	Sir	Giles	and	Mr	Clifton	seemed	to	be	in	accord	when	the	Lord
Chancellor	gave	judgment	in	favour	of	Sir	Giles.	The	happy	couple,”’	continued	Emma,	‘“will	spend	their
honeymoon	at	Sir	Giles’s	villa	in	Tuscany.”
‘That’s	a	bit	rich,’	said	Emma,	looking	up.	‘The	villa	was	left	to	Grace	and	me	to	dispose	of	as	we	saw
fit.’
‘Behave	yourself,	Emma,’	said	Harry.	‘You	saw	fit	to	let	Giles	have	the	villa	in	exchange	for	us	being
allowed	to	move	into	the	Manor	House	until	the	courts	decide	on	the	validity	of	the	will.	Is	that	it?’
‘No,	the	really	juicy	bit	is	still	to	come.	“However,	it	now	looks	as	if	a	major	rift	has	divided	the
family	following	the	death	of	Sir	Giles’s	mother,	Lady	Elizabeth	Barrington.	In	her	recently	published
will,	she	left	the	bulk	of	her	estate	to	her	two	daughters,	Emma	and	Grace,	while	bequeathing	nothing	to
her	only	son.	Sir	Giles	has	issued	proceedings	to	contest	the	will,	and	the	case	will	be	heard	in	the	High
Court	next	month.”	That’s	it.	What	about	The	Times?’
‘Far	more	sober.	Just	the	facts,	no	speculation.	But	Billy	Collins	tells	me	there’s	a	photograph	of
Cleopatra	on	the	front	pages	of	the	Mail	and	the	Express,	and	the	Mirror’s	headline	is	“Battle	of	theCats”.’
‘How	can	it	have	come	to	this?’	said	Emma.	‘What	I’ll	never	understand	is	how	Giles	could	have
allowed	that	woman	to	stop	his	own	family	attending	the	wedding.’
‘I	can’t	understand	it	either,’	said	Harry,	‘but	then	I	never	understood	how	the	Prince	of	Wales	could
give	up	the	throne	for	an	American	divorcee.	I	suspect	your	mother	was	right.	Giles	is	simply	besotted
with	the	woman.’
‘If	my	mother	had	wanted	me	to	give	you	up,’	said	Emma,	‘I	would	have	defied	her.’	She	gave	him	a
warm	smile.	‘So	I	have	some	sympathy	with	my	brother.’
For	the	next	fortnight,	photographs	of	Sir	Giles	and	Lady	Barrington	on	their	honeymoon	in	Tuscany
appeared	in	most	of	the	national	papers.
Harry’s	fourth	novel,	Mightier	than	the	Sword,	was	published	on	the	day	the	Barringtons	returned	from
Italy.	The	following	morning	the	same	photograph	appeared	on	every	front	page	except	The	Times.
When	the	happy	couple	stepped	off	the	train	at	Waterloo,	they	had	to	pass	a	W.H.	Smith	bookshop	on
the	way	to	their	car.	There	was	only	one	novel	displayed	in	vast	numbers	in	the	window.	A	week	later,
Mightier	than	the	Sword	made	it	on	to	the	bestseller	list,	and	it	remained	there	right	up	until	the	opening
day	of	the	trial.
All	Harry	had	to	say	was	that	no	one	understood	how	to	promote	a	book	better	than	Billy	Collins.13
T HE	ONE	THING 	Giles	and	Emma	were	able	to	agree	on	was	that	it	would	be	wiser	for	the	case	to	be	heard
in	a	closed	court	with	a	judge	presiding,	rather	than	risking	the	unpredictable	whims	of	a	jury	and
relentless	hounding	by	the	press.	The	Hon.	Mr	Justice	Cameron	was	selected	to	preside	over	the	case,	and
both	counsel	assured	their	clients	that	he	was	a	man	of	probity,	wisdom	and	common	sense	in	equal
proportions.
Although	the	press	assembled	in	great	numbers	outside	court	No.	6,	good	morning	and	good	night	were
the	only	comments	they	got	from	either	party.
Giles	was	represented	by	Sir	Cuthbert	Makins	KC,	while	Emma	and	Grace	had	selected	Mr	Simon
Todd	KC	to	put	their	case,	although	Grace	made	it	clear	that	she	would	not	be	attending	proceedings	as
she	had	far	more	important	things	to	do.
‘Like	what?’	asked	Emma.
‘Like	teaching	clever	children,	rather	than	listening	to	arguments	from	childish	grown-ups.	If	I	were
given	the	choice,	I’d	just	bang	both	your	heads	together,’	was	her	final	comment	on	the	subject.
As	the	clock	behind	the	judge’s	chair	struck	the	first	of	ten	chimes	on	the	first	day	of	the	hearing,	Mr
Justice	Cameron	made	his	entrance.	Everyone	else	in	court	followed	the	example	of	the	two	silks,	rising
and	bowing	to	his	lordship.	Once	he	had	returned	the	compliment,	he	took	his	seat	in	the	high-backed
leather	chair	in	front	of	the	royal	coat	of	arms.	He	adjusted	his	wig,	opened	the	thick	red	file	in	front	of
him	and	took	a	sip	of	water	before	addressing	both	parties.
‘Ladies	and	gentlemen,’	he	began.	‘It	is	my	job	to	listen	to	the	arguments	presented	by	both	leading
counsel,	assess	the	evidence	of	witnesses,	and	consider	the	points	of	law	that	are	relevant	to	this	case.	I
must	begin	by	asking	counsel	for	both	the	plaintiff	and	the	defence	if	every	effort	has	been	made	to	come
to	an	out-of-court	settlement.’
Sir	Cuthbert	rose	slowly	from	his	place	and	tugged	the	lapels	of	his	long	black	gown	before	addressing
the	court.	‘I	speak	on	behalf	of	both	parties	when	I	say	that	sadly,	m’lud,	that	has	not	been	possible.’
‘Then	let	us	proceed,	Sir	Cuthbert,	with	your	opening	statement.’
‘If	it	so	pleases	your	lordship,	in	this	case	I	represent	the	plaintiff,	Sir	Giles	Barrington.	The	case,
m’lud,	concerns	the	validity	of	a	will,	and	whether	the	late	Lady	Barrington	was	of	sufficiently	sound
mind	to	put	her	signature	to	a	long	and	complex	document,	with	far-reaching	ramifications,	only	hours
before	she	died.	I	submit,	m’lud,	that	this	frail	and	exhausted	woman	was	in	no	position	to	make	a
considered	judgement	that	would	affect	the	lives	of	so	many	people.	I	shall	also	show	that	Lady
Barrington	had	executed	an	earlier	will,	some	twelve	months	prior	to	her	death,	when	she	was	in	rude
health,	and	had	more	than	enough	time	to	consider	her	actions.	And	to	that	end,	m’lud,	I	would	like	to	call
my	first	witness,	Mr	Michael	Pym.’
A	tall,	elegantly	dressed	man	with	a	head	of	silver	hair	entered	the	courtroom.	Even	before	he’d	takenthe	witness	stand,	he’d	given	the	favourable	impression	Sir	Cuthbert	had	planned.	Once	the	witness	had
sworn	the	oath,	Sir	Cuthbert	gave	him	a	warm	smile.
‘Mr	Pym,	will	you	please	state	your	name	and	occupation	for	the	court	record.’
‘My	name	is	Michael	Pym,	and	I	am	the	senior	surgeon	at	Guy’s	Hospital	in	the	City	of	London.’
‘How	long	have	you	held	that	position?’
‘Sixteen	years.’
‘So	you	are	a	man	with	a	great	deal	of	experience	in	your	field.	Indeed,	one	might	say—’
‘I	accept	that	Mr	Pym	is	an	expert	witness,	Sir	Cuthbert.	Get	on	with	it,’	said	the	judge.
‘Mr	Pym,’	said	Sir	Cuthbert,	recovering	quickly,	‘would	you	please	tell	the	court,	with	all	your
considerable	experience,	what	a	patient	can	expect	to	go	through	during	the	last	week	of	his	or	her	life
when	suffering	from	such	a	painful	and	debilitating	disease	as	cancer?’
‘It	can	vary,	of	course,	but	the	vast	majority	of	patients	will	spend	long	periods	of	time	in	a	semi-
conscious	or	unconscious	state.	In	their	waking	moments	they	are	often	aware	that	their	life	is	ebbing
away,	but	apart	from	that	they	can	lose	all	sense	of	reality.’
‘Would	you	think	it	possible	for	a	patient	in	this	state	of	mind	to	make	an	important	decision	on	a
complex	legal	matter,	such	as	the	signing	of	a	will?’
‘No,	I	would	not,’	replied	Pym.	‘Whenever	I	require	a	medical	consent	form	to	be	signed	under	such
circumstances,	I	make	sure	it	is	done	some	time	before	the	patient	reaches	that	condition.’
‘No	more	questions,	m’lud,’	said	Sir	Cuthbert,	resuming	his	seat.
‘Mr	Pym,’	said	the	judge,	leaning	forward,	‘are	you	saying	there	are	no	exceptions	to	this	rule?’
‘The	exception	proves	the	rule,	m’lud.’
‘Quite	so,’	responded	the	judge.	Turning	to	Mr	Todd,	he	asked,	‘Do	you	have	any	questions	for	this
witness?’
‘I	most	certainly	do,	m’lud,’	said	Mr	Todd,	rising	from	his	place.	‘Mr	Pym,	did	you	ever	come	across
Lady	Barrington,	either	socially	or	professionally?’
‘No,	but—’
‘So	you	haven’t	had	the	chance	to	study	her	case	history?’
‘Of	course	not.	She	was	not	my	patient,	so	that	would	be	a	breach	of	the	Medical	Council’s	code	of
conduct.’
‘So	you	never	met	Lady	Barrington,	and	you	are	not	familiar	with	her	case?’
‘No,	sir.’
‘So	it’s	quite	possible,	Mr	Pym,	that	she	could	be	the	exception	that	proves	the	rule?’
‘Possible,	but	highly	improbable.’
‘No	further	questions,	m’lud.’
Sir	Cuthbert	smiled	as	Mr	Todd	sat	down.
‘Will	you	be	calling	any	other	expert	witnesses	Sir	Cuthbert?’	enquired	the	judge.
‘No,	m’lud,	I	feel	I	have	made	my	point.	However,	in	your	bundle	of	evidence	I	have	placed	three
written	statements	for	your	consideration	from	equally	eminent	members	of	the	medical	profession.	If
either	you,	m’lud,	or	Mr	Todd	feel	they	should	appear	before	the	court,	they	are	all	on	hand	and	available
to	do	so.’
‘That’s	good	of	you,	Sir	Cuthbert.	I	have	read	all	three	statements,	and	they	confirm	Mr	Pym’s	opinion.
Mr	Todd,	do	you	wish	to	call	any	of	these	witnesses,	or	indeed	all	three	of	them?’
‘That	will	not	be	necessary,	m’lud,’	said	Todd.	‘Unless	of	course	any	of	them	knew	Lady	Barrington
personally,	or	were	familiar	with	her	case.’
The	judge	glanced	at	Sir	Cuthbert,	who	shook	his	head.	‘I	have	no	further	witnesses,	m’lud.’
‘Then	you	may	call	your	first	witness,	Mr	Todd,’	said	the	judge.
‘Thank	you,	m’lud.	I	call	Mr	Kenneth	Langbourne.’Mr	Langbourne	could	not	have	been	cut	from	more	different	cloth	to	Mr	Pym.	He	was	short,	and	a
couple	of	buttons	were	missing	from	his	waistcoat,	which	suggested	either	that	he	had	recently	put	on
some	weight,	or	that	he	wasn’t	married.	And	either	the	few	tufts	of	hair	left	on	his	head	had	a	will	of	their
own,	or	he	didn’t	possess	a	comb.
‘Would	you	please	state	your	name	and	occupation.’
‘My	name	is	Kenneth	Langbourne,	and	I	am	the	senior	surgeon	at	the	Bristol	Royal	Infirmary.’
‘How	long	have	you	held	that	position,	Mr	Langbourne?’
‘For	the	past	nine	years.’
‘And	were	you	the	surgeon	in	charge	of	Lady	Barrington’s	case	while	she	was	at	the	Bristol	Royal
Infirmary?’
‘Yes,	I	was.	She	was	referred	to	me	by	Dr	Raeburn,	her	family	GP.’
‘Am	I	right	in	saying	that	after	carrying	out	several	tests	on	Lady	Barrington,	you	confirmed	her	family
doctor’s	diagnosis	of	breast	cancer,	and	informed	her	that	she	had	only	a	few	weeks	to	live?’
‘Yes,	it	is	one	of	a	surgeon’s	more	unenviable	tasks	to	have	to	inform	patients	of	a	terminal	prognosis.
It’s	even	harder	when	the	patient	in	question	is	an	old	friend.’
‘And	can	you	tell	his	lordship	how	Lady	Barrington	reacted	to	this	news?’
‘Stoical	is	the	word	I	would	use	to	describe	her.	And	once	she’d	accepted	her	fate,	she	displayed	a
determination	that	suggested	she	had	something	important	to	do,	and	hadn’t	a	moment	to	lose.’
‘But	surely,	Mr	Langbourne,	she	must	have	been	exhausted	from	the	continual	pain	she	was	suffering,
and	drowsy	as	a	result	of	her	medication?’
‘She	certainly	slept	for	long	periods,	but	when	she	was	awake,	she	was	perfectly	capable	of	reading
The	Times,	and	whenever	visitors	came	to	see	her,	it	was	often	they	who	left	exhausted.’
‘How	do	you	explain	this,	Mr	Langbourne?’
‘I	can’t.	All	I	can	tell	you	is	that	it’s	sometimes	quite	amazing	how	a	human	being	will	respond	once
they	accept	that	their	time	is	limited.’
‘Based	on	your	knowledge	of	the	case,	Mr	Langbourne,	do	you	consider	that	Lady	Barrington	would
have	been	capable	of	understanding	a	complex	legal	document	such	as	a	will,	and	of	putting	her	signature
to	it?’
‘I	can’t	see	why	not.	During	her	time	at	the	hospital	she	wrote	several	letters,	and	indeed	she	asked	me
to	witness	her	signature	on	her	will	in	the	presence	of	her	solicitor.’
‘Is	that	a	task	you	carry	out	regularly?’
‘Only	if	I’m	confident	that	the	patient	is	fully	aware	of	what	they	are	signing.	Otherwise	I	would	refuse
to	do	so.’
‘But	on	this	occasion,	you	were	satisfied	that	Lady	Barrington	was	fully	aware	of	what	she	was	doing?’
‘Yes,	I	was.’
‘No	further	questions,	m’lud.’
‘Sir	Cuthbert,	do	you	wish	to	question	this	witness?’
‘I	have	only	one	question,	m’lud,’	said	Sir	Cuthbert.	‘Mr	Langbourne,	how	long	did	Lady	Barrington
live	after	you’d	witnessed	the	signature	on	her	will?’
‘She	died	later	that	night.’
‘Later	that	night,’	repeated	Sir	Cuthbert.	‘So,	just	a	matter	of	hours?’
‘Yes.’
‘No	more	questions,	m’lud.’
‘Will	you	call	your	next	witness,	Mr	Todd.’
‘Yes,	m’lud.	I	call	Mr	Desmond	Siddons.’
Siddons	entered	the	courtroom	as	if	it	was	his	front	parlour,	and	delivered	the	oath	like	a	seasoned
professional.‘Would	you	please	state	your	name	and	occupation?’
‘My	name	is	Desmond	Siddons.	I	am	the	senior	partner	of	Marshall,	Baker	and	Siddons,	and	I	have
been	the	Barrington	family’s	solicitor	for	the	past	twenty-three	years.’
‘Let	me	begin	by	asking	you,	Mr	Siddons,	if	you	were	responsible	for	executing	the	earlier	will,	which
Sir	Giles	contends	was	in	fact	Lady	Barrington’s	final	testament.’
‘I	was,	sir.’
‘And	how	long	ago	was	that?’
‘Just	over	a	year	before	Lady	Barrington’s	death.’
‘And	did	Lady	Barrington	later	get	in	touch	to	let	you	know	that	she	wished	to	write	a	new	will?’
‘She	did	indeed,	sir.	Just	a	few	days	before	she	died.’
‘And	how	did	the	latest	will,	the	one	that	is	the	subject	of	this	dispute,	differ	from	the	one	executed	by
you	just	over	a	year	before?’
‘All	the	bequests	to	charities,	her	staff,	her	grandchildren	and	her	friends	remained	unaltered.	In	fact
there	was	only	one	significant	change	in	the	whole	document.’
‘And	what	was	that,	Mr	Siddons?’
‘That	the	bulk	of	the	Harvey	estate	was	no	longer	to	be	passed	to	her	son,	Sir	Giles	Barrington,	but	to
her	two	daughters,	Mrs	Harold	Clifton	and	Miss	Grace	Barrington.’
‘Let	me	be	absolutely	clear	about	this,’	said	Mr	Todd.	‘With	the	exception	of	the	one	change,	a
significant	change	I	concede,	the	earlier	document	remained	intact?’
‘That	is	correct.’
‘What	state	of	mind	was	Lady	Barrington	in	when	she	asked	you	to	make	this	one	significant	change	to
her	will?’
‘M’lud,	I	must	object,’	said	Sir	Cuthbert,	leaping	up	from	his	place.	‘How	can	Mr	Siddons	give	a
judgement	on	Lady	Barrington’s	state	of	mind?	He’s	a	solicitor,	not	a	psychiatrist.’
‘I	agree,’	said	the	judge,	‘but	as	Mr	Siddons	had	known	the	lady	for	twenty-three	years,	I	would	be
interested	to	hear	his	opinion.’
‘She	was	very	tired,’	said	Siddons,	‘and	she	took	more	time	than	usual	to	express	herself.	However,
she	made	it	clear	that	she	wished	a	new	will	to	be	prepared	expeditiously.’
‘Expeditiously	–	your	word	or	hers?’	asked	the	judge.
‘Hers,	m’lud.	She	often	chastised	me	for	writing	a	paragraph	when	a	sentence	would	have	done.’
‘So	you	prepared	the	new	will	expeditiously?’
‘I	most	certainly	did,	as	I	was	aware	that	time	was	against	us.’
‘Were	you	present	when	the	will	was	witnessed?’
‘Yes.	It	was	witnessed	by	Mr	Langbourne	and	the	matron	on	the	wing,	a	Miss	Rumbold.’
‘And	it	remains	your	submission	that	Lady	Barrington	knew	exactly	what	she	was	signing?’
‘Most	certainly,’	said	Siddons	firmly.	‘Otherwise	I	would	not	have	been	willing	to	go	ahead	with	the
procedure.’
‘Quite	so.	No	more	questions,	m’lud,’	said	Mr	Todd.
‘Your	witness,	Sir	Cuthbert.’
‘Thank	you,	m’lud.	Mr	Siddons,	you	told	the	court	that	you	were	under	considerable	pressure	to	get	the
new	will	completed	and	signed,	and	for	that	reason	you	prepared	it	expeditiously,	to	use	your	own	word.’
‘Yes.	I	had	been	warned	by	Mr	Langbourne	that	Lady	Barrington	didn’t	have	long	to	live.’
‘So,	understandably,	you	did	everything	in	your	power	to	speed	things	up.’
‘I	didn’t	have	much	choice.’
‘I	don’t	doubt	it,	Mr	Siddons.	Can	I	ask	how	long	it	took	you	to	execute	the	earlier	will,	the	one	that	my
client	contends	is	Lady	Barrington’s	authentic	testament?’
Siddons	hesitated	for	a	moment	before	saying,	‘Three,	possibly	four	months.’‘With	regular	consultations	with	Lady	Barrington,	no	doubt?’
‘Yes,	she	was	a	stickler	for	detail.’
‘I’m	sure	she	was.	But	she	wasn’t	given	much	time	to	consider	the	details	of	her	later	will.	Five	days	to
be	precise.’
‘Yes,	but	don’t	forget—’
‘And	on	the	final	day,	she	only	just	managed	to	sign	the	will	in	the	nick	of	time.	Isn’t	that	correct?’
‘Yes,	I	suppose	you	could	put	it	that	way.’
Sir	Cuthbert	turned	to	the	clerk	of	the	court.	‘Would	you	be	kind	enough	to	pass	Mr	Siddons	Lady
Barrington’s	two	wills?’
Sir	Cuthbert	waited	until	the	two	documents	had	been	handed	to	the	witness,	before	he	continued	his
cross-examination.
‘Would	you	agree	with	me,	Mr	Siddons,	that	the	signature	on	the	earlier	will	is	much	bolder	and	more
assured	than	that	on	the	“nick	of	time”	will?	In	fact,	it’s	hard	to	believe	they	were	signed	by	the	same
person.’
‘Sir	Cuthbert,	are	you	suggesting	that	Lady	Barrington	didn’t	sign	the	second	will?’	asked	the	judge.
‘Certainly	not,	m’lud,	but	I	am	suggesting	she	had	no	idea	what	she	was	signing.’
‘Mr	Siddons,’	Sir	Cuthbert	continued,	turning	back	to	the	solicitor,	who	was	now	gripping	the	edge	of
the	witness	box	with	both	hands,	‘once	you’d	completed	the	new	rushed	will,	did	you	take	your	client
through	it	clause	by	clause?’
‘No,	I	didn’t.	After	all,	there	was	only	one	major	change	from	the	earlier	will.’
‘If	you	didn’t	take	Lady	Barrington	through	the	document	clause	by	clause,	Mr	Siddons,	we	only	have
your	word	for	that.’
‘M’lud,	that	is	an	outrageous	suggestion,’	said	Mr	Todd,	leaping	to	his	feet.	‘Mr	Siddons	has	had	a	long
and	distinguished	career	in	the	legal	profession,	and	does	not	deserve	such	a	slur	on	his	character.’
‘I	agree	with	you,	Mr	Todd,’	said	the	judge.	‘Sir	Cuthbert,	you	will	withdraw	that	statement.’
‘I	apologize,	m’lud,’	Sir	Cuthbert	said,	offering	a	slight	bow	before	turning	back	to	the	witness	once
again.	‘Mr	Siddons,	in	the	earlier	will,	who	was	it	that	suggested	that	all	thirty-six	pages	should	be
initialled	with	the	letters	EB?’
‘I	believe	I	did,’	said	Siddons,	sounding	a	little	flustered.
‘But	you	did	not	insist	on	the	same	rigorous	procedure	for	the	second	will,	the	expeditiously	prepared
document.’
‘I	didn’t	feel	it	was	necessary.	After	all,	there	was,	as	I	have	said,	only	one	significant	change.’
‘And	on	which	page	will	we	find	this	significant	change,	Mr	Siddons?’
Siddons	flicked	through	the	will	and	smiled.	‘Page	twenty-nine,	clause	seven.’
‘Ah	yes,	I	have	it	in	front	of	me,’	said	Sir	Cuthbert.	‘But	I	don’t	see	the	initials	EB,	either	at	the	bottom
of	the	page	or	next	to	the	relevant	clause.	Perhaps	Lady	Barrington	was	too	tired	to	manage	two	signatures
on	the	same	day?’
Siddons	looked	as	if	he	wanted	to	protest,	but	said	nothing.
‘Let	me	ask	you,	Mr	Siddons,	on	how	many	occasions	in	your	long	and	distinguished	career	have	you
failed	to	advise	a	client	to	put	their	initials	on	every	page	of	a	will?’
Siddons	didn’t	reply.	Sir	Cuthbert	looked	first	at	Mr	Todd	and	then	at	the	judge,	before	his	eyes
returned	to	the	witness	box.	‘I’m	still	waiting,	sir.’
Siddons	stared	desperately	up	at	the	bench,	and	blurted	out,	‘If	you	were	to	read	the	letter,	m’lud,	that
Lady	Barrington	addressed	to	you,	it	might	help	you	decide	if	she	knew	exactly	what	she	was	doing.’
‘Letter?’	said	the	judge,	looking	puzzled.	‘I	know	nothing	of	a	letter.	It	was	certainly	not	among	the
court’s	bundle	of	papers.	Are	you	aware	of	such	a	letter,	Sir	Cuthbert?’
‘It’s	the	first	I’ve	heard	of	it,	m’lud.	I’m	as	much	in	the	dark	as	you	are.’‘That’s	because,’	Siddons	spluttered,	‘it	was	handed	to	me	only	this	morning.	I	haven’t	even	had	time	to
alert	Mr	Todd	to	its	existence.’
‘What	are	you	talking	about,	man?’	said	the	judge.
Every	eye	was	fixed	on	Siddons	as	he	took	an	envelope	from	an	inside	pocket	and	held	it	aloft	as	if	it
were	on	fire.	‘This	is	the	envelope	that	was	given	to	me	this	morning,	m’lud.’
‘By	whom,	Siddons?’	demanded	the	judge.
‘Mr	Harry	Clifton.	He	told	me	it	had	been	given	to	him	by	Lady	Barrington	just	hours	before	she	died.’
‘Have	you	opened	the	envelope,	Mr	Siddons?’
‘No,	I	have	not,	sir.	It	is	addressed	to	you,	as	the	presiding	judge.’
‘I	see,’	said	the	judge.	‘Mr	Todd	and	Sir	Cuthbert,	would	you	be	kind	enough	to	join	me	in	my
chambers?’
‘This	is	a	rum	business,	gentlemen,’	said	the	judge	as	he	placed	the	unopened	envelope	on	his	desk	in
front	of	the	two	barristers.	‘Given	the	circumstances,	I	confess	I	don’t	know	what	the	best	course	of	action
is.’
‘Both	of	us,’	said	Mr	Todd,	‘could	put	forward	a	compelling	argument	that	the	letter	should	be	treated
as	inadmissible	evidence.’
‘I	agree,’	said	Sir	Cuthbert,	‘but	frankly	we’re	damned	if	we	do,	and	we’re	damned	if	we	don’t.
Because	if	you	don’t	open	the	envelope	now	it’s	found	its	way	into	court,	whichever	side	loses	this	case
will	certainly	have	grounds	for	an	appeal.’
‘I	fear	that	may	well	be	the	case,’	said	the	judge.	‘If	you	both	agree,	perhaps	it	might	be	wise	for	you,
Simon,	to	call	Mr	Clifton	as	a	witness	under	oath,	and	see	if	he	can	throw	some	light	on	how	he	came	into
possession	of	this	envelope	in	the	first	place.	What	do	you	think,	Cuthbert?’
‘I	have	no	objection	to	that,’	said	Sir	Cuthbert.
‘Good.	However,	let	me	assure	you,’	continued	the	judge,	‘that	I	will	not	open	the	envelope	until	I’ve
heard	Mr	Clifton’s	evidence,	and	I	will	only	do	so	then	if	you	both	approve.	And	should	I	do	so,	it	will
have	to	be	in	the	presence	of	anyone	who	might	be	affected	by	the	outcome	of	these	proceedings.’14
‘C ALL 	M R 	H ARRY 	C LIFTON .’
Emma	gripped	Harry’s	hand	before	he	rose	from	his	place	and	walked	calmly	across	to	the	witness
box.	Once	he’d	taken	the	oath,	the	judge	leaned	forward	and	said,	‘Mr	Clifton,	I	propose	to	ask	you	a	few
questions.	When	I	have	finished,	if	learned	counsel	wish	to	clarify	any	points,	they	will	be	free	to	do	so.
Can	I	confirm	for	the	record	that	you	are	the	husband	of	Emma	Clifton,	and	the	brother-in-law	of	Miss
Grace	Barrington,	the	two	defendants	in	this	case?’
‘I	am	indeed,	sir,	and	also	the	brother-in-law	of	Sir	Giles	Barrington,	my	oldest	and	closest	friend.’
‘Could	you	tell	the	court	about	your	relationship	with	Lady	Barrington?’
‘I	was	twelve	when	I	first	met	her	at	a	tea	party	to	celebrate	Giles’s	birthday,	so	I	knew	her	for	almost
twenty	years.’
‘That	does	not	answer	my	question,’	pressed	the	judge.
‘I	considered	Elizabeth	a	dear	and	close	friend,	and	I	mourn	her	untimely	death	as	deeply	as	anyone	in
this	room.	She	was	a	truly	remarkable	woman,	and	if	she	had	been	born	a	generation	later,	the	board	of
Barrington’s	shipping	line	wouldn’t	have	had	to	look	outside	the	family	for	a	new	chairman	when	her
husband	died.’
‘Thank	you,’	said	the	judge.	‘And	now	I	would	like	to	ask	you	about	this	envelope,’	he	said,	holding	it
up	for	all	to	see,	‘and	how	it	came	into	your	possession.’
‘I	went	to	see	Elizabeth	in	hospital	most	evenings.	My	final	visit	took	place	on	what	turned	out	to	be	the
last	night	of	her	life.’
‘You	were	alone	with	her?’
‘Yes,	sir.	Her	daughter	Grace	had	just	left.’
‘Please	tell	the	court	what	happened.’
‘Elizabeth	told	me	that	earlier	in	the	day	she’d	had	a	visit	from	her	solicitor,	Mr	Siddons,	and	had
signed	a	new	will.’
‘We’re	talking	about	the	evening	of	Thursday	July	twenty-sixth?’
‘Yes,	sir,	just	a	few	hours	before	Elizabeth	died.’
‘Could	you	tell	the	court	what	else	happened	during	that	visit?’
‘She	surprised	me	by	taking	a	sealed	envelope	from	under	her	pillow	which	she	gave	me	for	safe
keeping.’
‘Did	she	explain	why	she	was	giving	it	to	you?’
‘She	only	said	that	if	Giles	were	to	contest	her	new	will,	I	was	to	hand	the	letter	to	the	judge	selected
to	preside	over	the	case.’
‘Did	she	give	you	any	other	instructions?’
‘She	said	I	was	not	to	open	the	envelope	or	to	let	Giles	or	my	wife	know	of	its	existence.’‘And	if	Sir	Giles	did	not	contest	the	will?’
‘I	was	to	destroy	it,	with	the	same	instructions	not	to	reveal	it	had	ever	existed.’
‘So	you	have	no	idea	what	is	in	this	envelope,	Mr	Clifton?’	said	the	judge,	holding	it	up.
‘None	whatsoever.’
‘And	we’re	expected	to	believe	that,’	said	Virginia,	loud	enough	for	everyone	to	hear.
‘Curiouser	and	curiouser,’	said	the	judge,	ignoring	the	interruption.	‘I	have	no	more	questions	for	you,
Mr	Clifton.	Mr	Todd?’
‘Thank	you,	m’lud,’	said	Mr	Todd,	rising	from	his	place.	‘You	told	his	lordship,	Mr	Clifton,	that	Lady
Barrington	said	she’d	written	a	new	will.	Did	she	give	you	any	reason	why	she	had	done	so?’
‘There’s	no	doubt	in	my	mind	that	Elizabeth	loved	her	son,	but	she	told	me	she	feared	if	he	were	to
marry	that	dreadful	woman	Lady	Virginia—’
‘M’lud,’	said	Sir	Cuthbert,	leaping	up	from	his	place.	‘This	is	hearsay,	and	clearly	inadmissible.’
‘I	agree.	It	will	be	struck	from	the	record.’
‘But,	m’lud,’	intervened	Mr	Todd,	‘the	fact	that	Lady	Barrington	left	her	Siamese	cat,	Cleopatra,	to
Lady	Virginia	rather	suggests—’
‘You	have	made	your	point,	Mr	Todd,’	said	the	judge.	‘Sir	Cuthbert,	do	you	have	any	questions	for	this
witness?’
‘Only	one,	m’lud.’	Looking	directly	at	Harry,	Sir	Cuthbert	asked,	‘Were	you	a	beneficiary	of	the	earlier
will?’
‘No,	sir,	I	was	not.’
‘I	have	no	more	questions	for	Mr	Clifton,	m’lud.	But	I	would	beg	the	court’s	indulgence	and	ask	that
before	you	decide	whether	or	not	the	letter	should	be	opened,	I	might	be	allowed	to	call	one	witness.’
‘Who	do	you	have	in	mind,	Sir	Cuthbert?’	enquired	the	judge.
‘The	person	who	stands	to	lose	the	most	should	your	judgment	go	against	him,	namely	Sir	Giles
Barrington.’
‘I	have	no	objection,	assuming	Mr	Todd	is	in	agreement.’
‘I	welcome	it,’	said	Todd,	aware	that	nothing	would	be	gained	by	objecting.
Giles	made	his	way	slowly	to	the	witness	box,	and	delivered	the	oath	as	if	he	was	addressing	the
House	of	Commons.	Sir	Cuthbert	greeted	him	with	a	warm	smile.
‘For	the	record,	will	you	please	state	your	name	and	occupation?’
‘Sir	Giles	Barrington,	Member	of	Parliament	for	Bristol	Docklands.’
‘And	when	did	you	last	see	your	mother?’	asked	Sir	Cuthbert.
The	judge	smiled.
‘I	visited	her	on	the	morning	of	the	day	she	died.’
‘Did	she	make	any	mention	of	the	fact	that	she	had	changed	her	will?’
‘None	whatsoever.’
‘So	when	you	left	her,	you	were	under	the	impression	that	there	was	only	one	will,	the	one	you	had
discussed	with	her	in	great	detail	over	a	year	before?’
‘Frankly,	Sir	Cuthbert,	my	mother’s	will	was	the	last	thing	on	my	mind	at	that	particular	moment.’
‘Quite	so.	But	I	do	need	to	ask	in	what	state	of	health	you	found	your	mother	that	morning.’
‘She	was	very	weak.	Barely	a	word	passed	between	us	during	the	hour	I	spent	with	her.’
‘So	it	must	have	come	as	a	surprise	to	learn	that	shortly	after	you	had	left,	she	put	her	signature	to	a
complex	document	some	thirty-six	pages	in	length.’
‘I	found	it	inconceivable,’	said	Giles,	‘and	still	do.’
‘Did	you	love	your	mother,	Sir	Giles?’
‘I	adored	her.	She	was	the	family’s	rock.	I	only	wish	she	was	still	with	us,	so	this	whole	sorry	business
need	never	have	arisen.’‘Thank	you,	Sir	Giles.	Please	stay	there,	as	Mr	Todd	may	wish	to	question	you.’
‘I	fear	I	might	have	to	take	the	odd	risk,’	Todd	whispered	to	Siddons	before	he	stood	to	address	the
witness.	‘Sir	Giles,	let	me	start	by	asking	if	you	have	any	objection	to	his	lordship	opening	the	envelope
that	is	addressed	to	him?’
‘Of	course	he	does!’	said	Virginia.
‘I	have	no	objection	to	the	letter	being	opened,’	said	Giles,	ignoring	his	wife.	‘If	it	was	written	on	the
day	of	my	mother’s	death,	it	will	surely	show	that	she	was	incapable	of	signing	a	document	as	important
as	a	will.	And	if	it	was	written	before	July	the	twenty-sixth,	it	is	unlikely	to	be	of	any	significance.’
‘Does	that	mean	that	you	accept	Mr	Clifton’s	account	of	what	took	place	after	you’d	seen	your	mother
for	the	last	time?’
‘No,	it	most	certainly	does	not,’	said	Virginia.
‘Madam,	you	will	desist	from	these	interjections,’	said	the	judge,	glaring	down	at	her.	‘If	you	offer	any
further	opinions,	other	than	from	the	witness	box,	I	shall	have	no	choice	but	to	have	you	removed	from	the
court.	Do	I	make	myself	clear?’
Virginia	bowed	her	head,	which	Mr	Justice	Cameron	considered	was	about	as	much	as	he	was	going	to
get	from	that	particular	lady.
‘Mr	Todd,	you	may	repeat	your	question.’
‘There’s	no	need	for	that,	m’lud,’	said	Giles.	‘If	Harry	says	my	mother	handed	him	the	letter	that	night,
then	that’s	what	happened.’
‘Thank	you,	Sir	Giles.	I	have	no	further	questions.’
The	judge	asked	both	counsel	to	rise.	‘Following	Sir	Giles	Barrington’s	evidence,	if	there	are	no
objections,	it	is	my	intention	to	open	the	envelope.’
Both	counsel	nodded,	aware	that	if	they	did	object,	it	would	only	leave	grounds	for	an	appeal.	In	any
case,	neither	believed	there	was	a	judge	in	the	land	who	wouldn’t	dismiss	any	objection	to	the	envelope
being	opened.
Mr	Justice	Cameron	held	up	the	envelope	so	that	everyone	in	court	could	see	it	clearly.	He	slit	it	open
and	pulled	out	a	single	sheet	of	paper	which	he	placed	on	the	desk	in	front	of	him.	He	read	it	three	times
before	he	spoke.
‘Mr	Siddons,’	he	said	finally.
The	Barrington	family	solicitor	rose	nervously	from	his	place.
‘Can	you	tell	me	the	date	and	the	precise	time	that	Lady	Barrington	died?’
Siddons	shuffled	through	some	papers	before	he	found	the	document	he	was	looking	for.	He	looked	up
at	the	judge	and	said,	‘I	can	confirm,	sir,	that	the	death	certificate	was	signed	at	ten	twenty-six	p.m.	on
Thursday	the	twenty-sixth	of	July,	1951.’
‘I	am	obliged,	Mr	Siddons.	I	shall	now	retire	to	my	chambers	to	consider	the	significance	of	this	piece
of	evidence.	The	court	will	adjourn	for	half	an	hour.’
‘It	didn’t	look	like	a	letter	to	me,’	said	Emma	as	their	little	group,	heads	down,	gathered	in	a	huddle.
‘More	like	an	official	document.	Did	she	sign	anything	else	that	day,	Mr	Siddons?’
Siddons	shook	his	head.	‘Not	in	my	presence	she	didn’t.	Any	ideas,	Mr	Todd?’
‘It	was	very	thin.	It	might	have	been	a	newspaper	cutting,	but	at	that	distance	I	couldn’t	be	sure.’
‘Why	ever	did	you	allow	the	judge	to	open	the	letter,	Giles?’	Virginia	hissed	from	the	other	side	of	the
courtroom.
‘Given	the	circumstances,	Lady	Virginia,	your	husband	had	little	choice,’	said	Sir	Cuthbert.	‘Although	I
believe	we	had	the	case	wrapped	up	until	that	last-minute	intervention.’‘What	can	the	judge	be	doing?’	asked	Emma,	unable	to	mask	how	nervous	she	was.
Harry	took	his	wife’s	hand.	‘It	won’t	be	long	now,	darling.’
‘If	the	judgment	goes	against	us,’	said	Virginia,	‘can	we	still	claim	that	whatever	was	in	the	envelope	is
inadmissible?’
‘I	can’t	answer	that	question,’	said	Sir	Cuthbert,	‘until	I’ve	had	a	chance	to	study	it.	The	contents	might
well	prove	that	your	husband	was	correct	in	suggesting	that	his	mother	was	in	no	fit	state	to	sign	an
important	legal	document	during	the	final	hours	of	her	life,	in	which	case	it	will	be	the	other	side	who
will	have	to	decide	whether	or	not	to	appeal.’
Both	parties	were	still	heads	down,	whispering	in	their	respective	corners,	like	boxers	waiting	for	the
bell	to	release	them	for	the	final	round,	when	the	door	behind	the	judge’s	chair	opened	and	the	referee
reappeared.
Everyone	in	court	stood	and	bowed	before	Mr	Justice	Cameron	resumed	his	place	in	the	high-backed
chair.	He	stared	down	at	a	dozen	expectant	faces.
‘I	have	now	had	the	opportunity	to	study	the	contents	of	the	envelope.’	Everyone’s	eyes	remained	fixed
on	him.	‘I	was	fascinated	to	discover	that	Lady	Barrington	and	I	share	a	hobby,	although	I	confess	she	was
a	far	more	accomplished	exponent	than	I	am,	because	on	Thursday	the	twenty-sixth	of	July,	she	completed
The	Times	crossword	puzzle,	leaving	only	one	clue	blank,	which	I	have	no	doubt	she	did	in	order	to
prove	her	point.	The	reason	I	found	it	necessary	to	leave	you	was	that	I	needed	to	visit	the	library	in	order
to	get	hold	of	a	copy	of	The	Times	for	the	following	day,	Friday	July	the	twenty-seventh	–	the	day	after
Lady	Barrington	died.	I	wanted	to	check	if	she	had	made	any	mistakes	in	the	previous	day’s	crossword
puzzle,	which	she	hadn’t,	and	to	confirm	the	answer	to	the	one	clue	she’d	left	blank.	Having	done	so,	I	am
in	no	doubt	that	Lady	Barrington	was	not	only	capable	of	signing	a	will,	but	was	well	aware	of	the
significance	of	its	contents.	I	am	therefore	ready	to	pass	judgment	in	this	case.’
Sir	Cuthbert	was	quickly	on	his	feet.	‘M’lud,	I	am	curious	to	know,	what	was	the	missing	clue	that
helped	you	reach	your	judgment?’
Mr	Justice	Cameron	looked	down	at	the	crossword	puzzle.	Twelve	across,	six	and	six,	common	pests	I
confused	when	in	my	right	mind.’
Sir	Cuthbert	bowed,	and	a	smile	crossed	Harry’s	face.
‘I	therefore	find	in	the	case	of	Barrington	versus	Clifton	and	Barrington,	in	favour	of	Mrs	Harold
Clifton	and	Miss	Grace	Barrington.’
‘We	must	appeal,’	said	Virginia,	as	Sir	Cuthbert	and	Mr	Todd	bowed	low.
‘I	shall	not	be	appealing,’	said	Giles.	‘Even	my	Latin	is	up	to	that.’
‘You	were	pathetic,’	said	Virginia	as	she	stormed	out	of	the	courtroom.
‘But	Harry	is	my	oldest	friend,’	Giles	said,	chasing	after	her.
‘And	I’m	your	wife,	just	in	case	you’ve	forgotten.’	Virginia	pushed	her	way	through	the	swing	doors
and	hurried	out	on	to	the	Strand.
‘But	what	else	could	I	have	done,	given	the	circumstances?’	he	asked	once	he’d	caught	up	with	her.
‘You	could	have	fought	tooth	and	nail	for	what	was	rightly	ours,	as	you	promised	you	would,’	she
reminded	him	before	hailing	a	cab.
‘But	isn’t	it	possible	that	the	judge	was	right	when	he	said	my	mother	knew	exactly	what	she	was
doing?’
‘If	you	believe	that,	Giles,’	said	Virginia,	turning	to	face	him,	‘you	obviously	hold	the	same	low
opinion	of	me	that	she	did.’
Giles	was	left	speechless	as	a	taxi	drew	up.	Virginia	opened	the	door,	climbed	in	and	wound	down	thewindow.
‘I’m	going	to	stay	with	my	mother	for	a	few	days.	If	you	haven’t	lodged	an	appeal	by	the	time	I	get
back,	I	suggest	you	seek	advice	from	a	solicitor	who	specializes	in	divorce.’15
T HERE	WAS	A 	firm	rap	on	the	front	door.	Giles	checked	his	watch:	7.20	p.m.	Who	could	it	possibly	be?	He
hadn’t	invited	anyone	for	dinner,	and	he	wasn’t	expected	back	at	the	House	to	hear	the	closing	speeches
until	nine.	A	second	rap,	equally	firm,	and	he	remembered	it	was	the	housekeeper’s	night	off.	He	placed
yesterday’s	copy	of	Hansard	on	the	side	table,	pushed	himself	up	out	of	his	chair	and	was	heading
towards	the	corridor	when	there	was	a	third	rap.
‘Hold	your	horses,’	Giles	said.	He	pulled	open	the	door	to	find	the	last	person	he	would	have	expected
standing	on	his	doorstep	in	Smith	Square.
‘Grace?’	he	said,	unable	to	mask	his	surprise.
‘It’s	a	relief	to	discover	you	still	remember	my	name,’	said	his	sister	as	she	stepped	inside.
Giles	tried	to	think	of	an	equally	sharp	rejoinder,	but	as	he	hadn’t	been	in	touch	with	his	sister	since	the
day	of	his	mother’s	funeral,	he	had	to	accept	that	her	barbed	remark	was	justified.	In	truth,	he	hadn’t	been
in	contact	with	any	of	the	family	since	Virginia	had	stormed	out	of	the	courtroom	and	left	him	standing	on
the	pavement	outside.
‘What	brings	you	to	London,	Grace?’	he	asked	rather	feebly,	as	he	led	his	sister	down	the	corridor	and
into	the	drawing	room.
‘You,’	she	replied.	‘If	Mohammed,	etcetera.’
‘Can	I	get	you	a	drink?’	he	asked,	still	wondering	what	she	could	possibly	want,	unless	.	.	.
‘Thanks,	a	dry	sherry	would	go	down	well,	after	that	ghastly	train	journey.’
Giles	walked	across	to	the	sideboard	and	poured	her	a	sherry,	and	a	half	tumbler	of	whisky	for	himself,
as	he	desperately	searched	for	something	to	say.	‘I’ve	got	a	vote	at	ten,’	he	eventually	managed,	passing
Grace	her	drink.	His	younger	sister	always	made	him	feel	like	a	naughty	schoolboy	who’d	been	caught
smoking	by	the	headmaster.
‘That	will	be	more	than	enough	time	for	what	I	have	to	say.’
‘Have	you	come	to	claim	your	birthright	and	throw	me	out	of	the	house?’
‘No,	you	chump,	I’ve	come	to	try	and	knock	some	common	sense	into	that	thick	skull	of	yours.’
Giles	collapsed	into	his	chair	and	took	a	sip	of	whisky.	‘I’m	all	ears.’
‘It	will	be	my	thirtieth	birthday	next	week,	not	that	you	would	have	noticed.’
‘And	you’ve	come	all	this	way	just	to	tell	me	what	present	you	want?’	Giles	said,	trying	to	lighten	the
mood.
‘Exactly	that,’	said	Grace,	taking	him	by	surprise	for	a	second	time.
‘And	what	did	you	have	in	mind?’	Giles	felt	he	was	still	on	the	back	foot.
‘I	want	you	to	come	to	my	party.’
‘But	the	House	is	in	session,	and	since	I’ve	been	promoted	to	the	front	bench,	I’m	expected—’
‘Harry	and	Emma	will	be	there,’	said	Grace,	ignoring	his	excuses,	‘so	it	will	be	just	like	old	times.’Giles	took	another	gulp	of	whisky.	‘It	can	never	be	like	old	times.’
‘Of	course	it	can,	you	fool,	because	you’re	the	only	person	who’s	preventing	it.’
‘They	want	to	see	me?’
‘Why	wouldn’t	they?’	said	Grace.	‘This	stupid	feud	has	gone	on	long	enough,	which	is	why	I	intend	to
bang	all	your	heads	together	before	it’s	too	late.’
‘Who	else	will	be	there?’
‘Sebastian	and	Jessica,	a	few	friends,	mainly	academics,	but	you	don’t	have	to	talk	to	them,	except
perhaps	your	old	friend	Deakins.	However,’	she	added,	‘there’s	one	person	I	won’t	be	inviting.	By	the
way,	where	is	the	bitch?’
Giles	had	thought	there	was	nothing	his	sister	could	ever	say	that	would	shock	him.	How	wrong	he
was.
‘I’ve	no	idea,’	he	eventually	managed.	‘She	hasn’t	been	in	contact	with	me	for	over	a	year.	But	if	you
believe	the	Daily	Express,	she’s	currently	to	be	found	in	St	Tropez	on	the	arm	of	an	Italian	count.’
‘I’m	sure	they’ll	make	a	delightful	couple.	More	important,	it	gives	you	grounds	for	divorce.’
‘I	could	never	divorce	Virginia,	even	if	I	wanted	to.	Don’t	forget	what	Mama	went	through.	Not	an
experience	I	care	to	repeat.’
‘Oh,	I	see,’	said	Grace.	‘It’s	all	right	for	Virginia	to	be	gallivanting	around	the	South	of	France	with	her
Italian	lover,	but	it’s	not	all	right	for	her	husband	to	want	a	divorce?’
‘You	may	mock,’	said	Giles,	‘but	that	isn’t	the	way	a	gentleman	behaves.’
‘Don’t	make	me	laugh.	It	was	hardly	the	act	of	a	gentleman	to	drag	me	and	Emma	through	the	courts
over	Mother’s	will.’
‘That’s	below	the	belt,’	said	Giles	as	he	took	another	large	gulp	of	whisky.	‘But	I	suppose	it’s	no	more
than	I	deserved,’	he	added,	‘and	it’s	something	I’ll	regret	for	the	rest	of	my	life.	Will	you	ever	forgive
me?’
‘I	will	if	you	come	to	my	party,	and	apologize	to	your	sister	and	your	oldest	friend	for	being	such	a
chump.’
‘I’m	not	sure	I	can	face	them.’
‘You	faced	a	battery	of	German	soldiers	with	nothing	more	than	a	few	hand	grenades	and	a	pistol	to
protect	you.’
‘And	I’d	do	it	again	if	I	thought	it	would	convince	Emma	and	Harry	to	forgive	me.’
Grace	stood	up,	walked	across	the	room	and	knelt	down	beside	her	brother.	‘Of	course	they’ll	forgive
you,	you	silly	oaf.’	Giles	bowed	his	head	when	his	sister	put	her	arms	around	him.	‘You	know	only	too
well	that	Mother	wouldn’t	have	wanted	us	to	be	kept	apart	because	of	that	woman.’
As	Giles	drove	past	a	signpost	directing	him	to	Cambridge,	he	thought	it	still	wasn’t	too	late	to	turn	back,
although	he	knew	that	if	he	did,	he	might	never	be	given	a	second	chance.
As	he	entered	the	university	city,	he	could	feel	the	collegiate	atmosphere	all	around	him.	Young	men
and	women	in	academic	gowns	of	varying	lengths	were	rushing	in	every	direction.	It	brought	back
memories	of	his	time	at	Oxford,	cut	short	by	Herr	Hitler.
When	Giles	had	found	his	way	back	to	England	five	years	later,	having	escaped	from	a	prisoner-of-war
camp,	the	principal	of	Brasenose	had	offered	him	the	chance	to	return	to	his	old	college	and	complete	his
degree.	But	by	then	he	was	a	25-year-old	battle-scarred	veteran,	and	felt	the	moment	had	passed,	as	it	had
for	so	many	young	men	of	his	generation,	Harry	included.	In	any	case,	the	opportunity	to	fight	another
battle	had	arisen,	and	he	couldn’t	resist	the	challenge	of	sparring	for	a	place	on	the	green	benches	of	the
House	of	Commons.	No	regrets,	thought	Giles.	Well,	there	were	always	some	regrets.He	drove	down	Grange	Road,	took	a	right	and	parked	his	car	in	Sidgwick	Avenue.	He	walked	under	an
archway	declaring	Newnham	College,	founded	in	1871,	before	women	could	be	awarded	degrees,	by	a
far-sighted	visionary	who	believed	that	would	happen	in	his	lifetime.	It	didn’t.
Giles	stopped	at	the	lodge	and	was	about	to	ask	directions	to	Miss	Barrington’s	party	when	the	porter
said,	‘Good	evening,	Sir	Giles,	you’ll	be	wanting	the	Sidgwick	Room.’
Recognized.	No	turning	back.
‘If	you	walk	on	down	the	corridor,	it’s	at	the	top	of	the	stairs,	third	door	on	the	left.	You	can’t	miss	it.’
Giles	followed	his	directions,	passing	a	dozen	or	so	undergraduates	dressed	in	long	black	skirts,	white
blouses	and	academic	gowns.	They	didn’t	give	him	a	second	look,	but	then	why	should	they?	He	was
thirty-three,	almost	twice	their	age.
He	climbed	the	stairs,	and	when	he	reached	the	top	step	he	didn’t	need	further	directions	because	he
could	hear	exuberant	voices	and	laughter	long	before	he	reached	the	third	door	on	the	left.	He	took	a	deep
breath	and	tried	not	to	make	an	entrance.
Jessica	was	the	first	to	spot	him,	and	immediately	ran	across	the	room	shouting,	‘Uncle	Giles,	Uncle
Giles,	where	have	you	been?’	Where	indeed,	thought	Giles,	as	he	looked	at	the	young	girl	he	adored,	not
quite	a	swan,	but	no	longer	a	cygnet.	She	leapt	up	and	threw	her	arms	around	him.	He	looked	over	her
shoulder	to	see	Grace	and	Emma	heading	towards	him.	All	three	of	them	tried	to	hug	him	at	once.	Other
guests	looked	on,	wondering	what	all	the	fuss	was	about.
‘I’m	so	sorry,’	said	Giles,	after	he’d	shaken	hands	with	Harry.	‘I	should	never	have	put	you	through	all
that.’
‘Don’t	dwell	on	it,’	said	Harry.	‘And	frankly,	both	of	us	have	been	through	far	worse.’
Giles	was	surprised	how	quickly	he	relaxed	with	his	oldest	friend.	They	were	chatting	about	Peter	May
as	if	it	were	old	times,	when	he	first	saw	her.	After	that,	he	couldn’t	take	his	eyes	off	her.
‘The	best	cover	drive	I’ve	ever	seen,’	Harry	said,	placing	his	left	foot	firmly	forward	while	trying	to
give	a	demonstration	without	a	bat.	He	hadn’t	noticed	how	distracted	Giles	had	become.
‘Yes,	I	was	at	Headingley	when	he	scored	a	century	against	the	South	Africans	in	his	first	Test.’
‘I	saw	that	innings	as	well,’	said	an	elderly	don	who	had	joined	them.	‘A	quite	magnificent	knock.’
Giles	slipped	away,	and	wove	his	way	around	the	crowded	room,	only	stopping	to	chat	to	Sebastian
about	how	he	was	getting	on	at	school.	The	young	man	seemed	far	more	relaxed	and	confident	than	he
ever	remembered	him	being.
Giles	was	beginning	to	fear	she	might	leave	before	he	got	the	chance	to	meet	her,	and	when	Sebastian
became	distracted	by	a	sausage	roll,	he	moved	on	until	he	found	himself	standing	by	her	side.	She	was
chatting	to	an	older	woman	and	didn’t	seem	to	be	aware	of	him.	He	stood	there,	tongue-tied,	wondering
why	Englishmen	found	it	so	difficult	to	introduce	themselves	to	women,	particularly	beautiful	women.
How	right	Betjeman	was,	and	this	wasn’t	even	a	desert	island.
‘I	don’t	think	Schwarzkopf’s	got	the	range	for	the	part,’	the	other	woman	was	saying.
‘You	may	be	right,	but	I’d	still	give	up	half	my	annual	grant	just	to	hear	her	sing.’
The	older	woman	glanced	at	Giles	and	turned	to	speak	to	someone	else,	almost	as	if	she	knew.	Giles
introduced	himself,	hoping	no	one	else	would	join	them.	They	shook	hands.	Just	touching	her	.	.	.
‘Hello.	I’m	Giles	Barrington.’
‘You	must	be	Grace’s	brother,	the	MP	I	keep	reading	about	who	has	all	those	radical	views.	I’m
Gwyneth,’	she	said,	revealing	her	ancestry.
‘Are	you	an	undergraduate?’
‘You	flatter	me,’	she	said,	giving	him	a	smile.	‘No,	I’m	just	completing	my	PhD.	Your	sister	is	my
supervisor.’
‘What’s	your	thesis	on?’
‘The	links	between	mathematics	and	philosophy	in	Ancient	Greece.’‘I	can’t	wait	to	read	it.’
‘I’ll	see	that	you	get	an	early	copy.’
‘Who’s	the	girl	Giles	is	chatting	to?’	Emma	asked	her	sister.
Grace	turned	and	looked	across	the	room.	‘Gwyneth	Hughes,	one	of	my	brighter	PhD	students.	He’ll
certainly	find	her	something	of	a	contrast	to	Lady	Virginia.	She’s	the	daughter	of	a	Welsh	miner,	up	from
the	valleys,	as	she	likes	to	remind	everyone,	and	she	certainly	knows	the	meaning	of	compos	mentis.’
‘She’s	very	attractive,’	Emma	said.	‘You	don’t	think—’
‘Good	heavens,	no,	what	would	they	have	in	common?’
Emma	smiled	to	herself,	before	saying,	‘Have	you	handed	over	your	eleven	per	cent	of	the	company	to
Giles?’
‘Yes,’	said	Grace,	‘along	with	my	rights	to	Grandfather’s	home	in	Smith	Square,	as	I	agreed	with
Mama,	once	I	was	convinced	the	silly	boy	was	finally	free	of	Virginia.’
Emma	didn’t	speak	for	some	time.	‘So	you	always	knew	the	contents	of	Mama’s	new	will?’
‘And	what	was	in	the	envelope,’	said	Grace	casually,	‘which	was	why	I	couldn’t	attend	the	trial.’
‘How	well	Mother	knew	you.’
‘How	well	she	knew	all	three	of	us,’	said	Grace	as	she	looked	across	the	room	at	her	brother.16
‘C AN	YOU	SET 	the	whole	thing	up?’	asked	Giles.
‘Yes,	sir,	just	leave	it	to	me.’
‘I’d	like	to	get	it	over	with	as	quickly	as	possible.’
‘Of	course,	sir.’
‘Such	a	sordid	business.	I	only	wish	there	was	a	more	civilized	way	of	doing	these	things.’
‘It’s	the	law	that	needs	changing,	Sir	Giles,	and	frankly	that’s	more	your	department	than	mine.’
Giles	knew	the	man	was	right,	and	undoubtedly	the	law	would	change	in	time,	but	Virginia	had	made	it
clear	she	couldn’t	wait.	After	months	of	not	making	any	contact	with	him,	she’d	rung	him	out	of	the	blue	to
tell	him	why	she	wanted	a	divorce.	She	didn’t	need	to	spell	out	what	was	expected	of	him.
‘Thank	you,	Bunny,	I	knew	you	could	be	relied	on,’	she’d	said	before	putting	the	phone	down.
‘When	will	I	hear	from	you?’	Giles	asked.
‘By	the	end	of	the	week,’	the	man	replied,	before	downing	his	half	pint.	He	rose,	gave	a	slight	bow	and
limped	away.
Giles	was	wearing	a	large	red	carnation	in	his	buttonhole	so	she	couldn’t	miss	him.	He	glanced	at	every
female	under	the	age	of	thirty	who	walked	in	his	direction.	None	of	them	even	gave	him	a	glance,	until	a
prim	young	woman	came	to	a	halt	by	his	side.
‘Mr	Brown?’	she	asked.
‘Yes,’	Giles	replied.
‘My	name	is	Miss	Holt.	I’m	from	the	agency.’
Without	another	word,	she	linked	her	arm	in	his	and	led	him	along	the	platform	like	a	guide	dog	until
they	reached	a	first-class	carriage.	Once	they	had	taken	their	seats	opposite	each	other,	Giles	wasn’t
altogether	sure	what	he	was	meant	to	do	next.	As	it	was	a	Friday	evening,	every	other	seat	was	taken	long
before	the	train	pulled	out	of	the	station.	Miss	Holt	didn’t	say	a	word	on	the	entire	journey.
When	the	train	pulled	into	Brighton,	she	was	among	the	first	to	get	off.	Giles	handed	two	tickets	to	the
collector	at	the	barrier	and	followed	her	towards	the	taxi	rank.	It	was	clear	to	Giles	that	Miss	Holt	had
done	this	several	times	before.	It	was	only	when	they	were	seated	in	the	back	of	the	taxi	that	she	spoke
again,	and	not	to	him.
‘Grand	Hotel.’
On	their	arrival	at	the	hotel,	Giles	checked	in,	registering	as	Mr	and	Mrs	Brown.
‘Room	thirty-one,	sir,’	said	the	receptionist.	He	looked	as	if	he	was	about	to	wink,	but	only	smiled	and
said,	‘Have	a	good	night,	sir.’
A	porter	carried	their	cases	up	to	the	third	floor.	It	wasn’t	until	after	he’d	collected	his	tip	and	left	thatshe	spoke	again.
‘My	name	is	Angela	Holt,’	she	said,	sitting	upright	on	the	end	of	the	bed.
Giles	remained	standing,	and	looked	at	a	woman	he	couldn’t	have	been	less	likely	to	spend	a	dirty
weekend	in	Brighton	with.	‘Can	you	guide	me	through	the	procedure?’	he	asked.
‘Certainly,	Sir	Giles,’	said	Miss	Holt,	as	if	he’d	asked	her	to	take	dictation.	‘At	eight	o’clock,	we’ll	go
downstairs	and	have	dinner.	I’ve	booked	a	table	in	the	centre	of	the	room,	in	the	hope	that	someone	might
recognize	you.	After	dinner,	we’ll	return	to	the	bedroom.	I	will	remain	fully	dressed	at	all	times,	but	you
can	get	undressed	in	the	bathroom,	where	you	will	put	on	your	pyjamas	and	dressing	gown.	At	ten
o’clock,	I	will	go	and	sleep	on	the	bed	and	you	will	sleep	on	the	couch.	At	two	a.m.,	you	will	phone
down	to	the	front	desk	and	order	a	bottle	of	vintage	champagne,	half	a	pint	of	Guinness	and	a	round	of
ham	sandwiches.	When	the	night	porter	delivers	your	order,	you	will	say	that	you	asked	for	Marmite	and
tomato	sandwiches,	and	tell	him	to	bring	the	correct	order	immediately.	When	he	returns,	you	will	thank
him	and	give	him	a	five-pound	note.’
‘Why	such	a	large	tip?’	asked	Giles.
‘Because	if	this	should	come	to	court,	the	night	porter	will	undoubtedly	be	called	to	give	evidence,	and
we	need	to	be	sure	he	won’t	have	forgotten	you.’
‘I	understand.’
‘In	the	morning,	we	will	have	breakfast	together,	and	when	you	check	out	you	must	pay	the	bill	by
cheque,	so	it	can	be	easily	traced.	As	we	leave	the	hotel,	you	will	embrace	me	and	kiss	me	several	times.
You	will	then	get	into	a	taxi	and	wave	goodbye.’
‘Why	several	times?’
‘Because	we	need	to	be	sure	that	your	wife’s	private	detective	gets	an	easily	identifiable	photograph	of
us	together.	Do	you	have	any	further	questions,	Sir	Giles,	before	we	go	down	to	dinner?’
‘Yes,	Miss	Holt.	May	I	ask	how	often	you	do	this?’
‘You	are	my	third	gentleman	this	week,	and	the	agency	has	already	booked	me	for	a	couple	of	jobs	for
next	week.’
‘This	is	madness.	Our	divorce	laws	are	frankly	barbaric.	The	government	ought	to	draft	new	legislation
as	soon	as	possible.’
‘I	hope	not,’	said	Miss	Holt,	‘because	if	you	were	to	do	that,	Sir	Giles,	I’d	be	out	of	a	job.’ALEX	FISHER
1954–195517
‘I	 QUITE	SIMPLY 	want	to	destroy	him,’	she	said.	‘Nothing	less	will	satisfy	me.’
‘I	can	assure	you,	Lady	Virginia,	I’ll	do	anything	I	can	to	assist.’
‘That’s	good	to	know,	major,	because	if	we’re	going	to	work	together,	we’ll	need	to	trust	each	other.
No	secrets.	However,	I	still	have	to	be	convinced	you’re	the	right	man	for	the	job.	Tell	me	why	you	think
you’re	so	well	qualified?’
‘I	think	you’ll	find	I’m	over-qualified,	my	lady,’	said	Fisher.	‘Barrington	and	I	go	back	a	long	way.’
‘Then	start	at	the	beginning	and	take	me	through	every	detail,	however	insignificant	it	might	seem.’
‘It	all	began	when	the	three	of	us	were	at	St	Bede’s	prep	school,	and	Barrington	made	friends	with	the
docker’s	son.’
‘Harry	Clifton,’	said	Virginia,	spitting	out	the	words.
‘Barrington	should	have	been	expelled	from	St	Bede’s.’
‘Why?’	asked	Virginia.
‘He	was	caught	stealing	from	the	tuck	shop,	but	he	got	away	with	it.’
‘How	did	he	manage	that?’
‘His	father,	Sir	Hugo,	another	criminal,	wrote	out	a	cheque	for	a	thousand	pounds,	which	made	it
possible	for	the	school	to	build	a	new	cricket	pavilion.	So	the	headmaster	turned	a	blind	eye,	which	made
it	possible	for	Barrington	to	go	to	Oxford.’
‘Did	you	also	go	up	to	Oxford?’
‘No,	I	joined	the	army.	But	our	paths	crossed	again	in	Tobruk	while	we	were	serving	in	the	same
regiment.’
‘Which	is	where	he	made	a	name	for	himself,	winning	the	Military	Cross	and	later	escaping	from	a
prisoner-of-war	camp?’
‘It	should	have	been	my	MC,’	said	Fisher,	his	eyes	narrowing.	‘I	was	his	commanding	officer	at	the
time	and	responsible	for	leading	an	attack	on	an	enemy	battery.	After	I	sent	the	Germans	packing,	the
colonel	put	me	up	for	an	MC,	but	Corporal	Bates,	a	friend	of	Barrington’s,	refused	to	endorse	my	citation,
so	I	was	downgraded	to	mentioned	in	dispatches,	and	Barrington	ended	up	getting	my	MC.’
This	wasn’t	Giles’s	version	of	what	had	taken	place	that	day,	but	Virginia	knew	which	one	she	wanted
to	believe.	‘Have	you	come	across	him	since?’
‘No.	I	stayed	in	the	army,	but	once	I	realized	he’d	scuppered	my	chance	of	getting	any	further
promotion,	I	took	early	retirement.’
‘So	what	do	you	do	now,	major?’
‘I’m	a	stockbroker	by	profession,	as	well	as	being	on	the	board	of	Bristol	Grammar	School.	I’m	also
on	the	executive	committee	of	the	local	Conservative	Association.	I	joined	the	party	so	I	could	play	a	role
in	making	sure	Barrington	doesn’t	win	at	the	next	election.’‘Well,	I’m	going	to	make	sure	you	play	a	leading	role,’	said	Virginia,	‘because	the	one	thing	that	man
cares	most	about	is	holding	on	to	his	seat	in	the	House	of	Commons.	He’s	convinced	that	if	Labour	wins
the	next	election,	Attlee	will	offer	him	a	place	in	the	Cabinet.’
‘Over	my	dead	body.’
‘I	don’t	think	we’ll	have	to	go	that	far.	After	all,	if	he	were	to	lose	his	seat	at	the	next	election,	there’s
not	much	chance	they’ll	readopt	him,	and	that	would	probably	mean	the	end	of	his	political	career.’
‘Amen	to	that,’	said	Fisher.	‘But	I	have	to	point	out	that	although	he	doesn’t	have	a	large	majority,	he’s
still	very	popular	in	the	constituency.’
‘I	wonder	how	popular	he’ll	be	after	I’ve	sued	him	for	adultery.’
‘He’s	already	prepared	the	ground	for	that,	telling	everyone	he	had	to	go	through	a	charade	in	Brighton
to	protect	your	reputation.	He’s	even	campaigning	to	have	the	divorce	laws	changed.’
‘But	how	would	his	constituents	react	if	they	discovered	that	for	the	past	year	he’s	been	having	an	affair
with	a	student	in	Cambridge?’
‘Once	your	divorce	has	gone	through,	no	one	will	give	a	damn.’
‘But	if	it	hasn’t	been	settled	and	I	let	it	be	known	that	I’m	trying	desperately	for	a	reconciliation	.	.	.’
‘That	would	change	the	situation	completely,’	said	Fisher.	‘And	you	can	rely	on	me	to	make	sure	that
news	of	your	sad	predicament	reaches	the	right	ears.’
‘Good.	Now,	it	would	help	our	long-term	aims	considerably	if	you	were	to	become	chairman	of	the
Bristol	Docklands	Conservative	Association.’
‘I’d	like	nothing	more.	The	only	problem	is	that	I	can’t	afford	to	spend	that	amount	of	time	on	politics,
while	I	have	to	earn	a	living.’	Fisher	tried	not	to	sound	embarrassed.
‘You	won’t	have	to	worry	about	that	once	you’ve	joined	the	board	of	the	Barrington	Shipping	group.’
‘There’s	not	much	hope	of	that	ever	happening.	Barrington	would	veto	the	appointment	the	moment	my
name	was	proposed.’
‘He	can’t	veto	anything	as	long	as	I	own	seven	and	a	half	per	cent	of	the	company’s	stock.’
‘I’m	not	sure	I	understand.’
‘Then	allow	me	to	explain,	major.	For	the	past	six	months,	I’ve	been	purchasing	Barrington’s	shares
through	a	blind	trust,	and	I	now	own	seven	and	a	half	per	cent	of	the	company.	If	you	check	their	bylaws,
you’ll	find	that	allows	me	to	appoint	a	member	of	the	board,	and	I	can’t	think	of	anyone	better	qualified	to
represent	me,	major.’
‘How	do	I	begin	to	thank	you?’
‘It’s	very	simple.	In	the	short	term	you	will	devote	your	time	to	becoming	chairman	of	the	local
Conservative	Association.	Once	you’ve	achieved	that,	your	sole	purpose	will	be	to	make	sure	the	voters
of	Bristol	Docklands	remove	their	Member	of	Parliament	at	the	next	election.’
‘And	in	the	long	term?’
‘I	have	an	idea	that	may	tickle	your	fancy.	But	we	can’t	even	consider	that	until	you	become	chairman
of	the	association.’
‘Then	I’d	better	get	back	to	Bristol	and	start	working	on	it	immediately.	But	before	I	do,	there’s
something	I’d	like	to	ask	you.’
‘Of	course,’	said	Virginia,	‘ask	me	anything.	After	all,	we’re	partners	now.’
‘Why	did	you	choose	me	for	this	job?’
‘Oh,	that’s	simple,	major.	Giles	once	told	me	you	were	the	only	man	he’s	ever	detested.’
‘Gentlemen,’	said	Bill	Hawkins,	the	chairman	of	the	Conservative	Association	as	he	tapped	his	gavel	on
the	table,	‘if	I	might	call	the	meeting	to	order.	Perhaps	I	could	begin	by	asking	our	honorary	secretary,Major	Fisher,	to	read	the	minutes	of	the	last	meeting.’
‘Thank	you,	Mr	Chairman.	At	the	last	meeting,	held	on	the	fourteenth	of	June	1954,	the	committee
instructed	me	to	write	to	Central	Office	in	London	and	request	a	list	of	candidates	who	might	be
considered	to	represent	the	party	in	this	constituency	at	the	next	general	election.	The	official	candidates
list	arrived	a	few	days	later,	and	I	circulated	a	copy	to	members	so	they	could	consider	the	applicants	at
this	evening’s	meeting.
‘It	was	agreed	that	the	summer	fete	would	be	held	at	Castle	Combe	this	year,	by	kind	permission	of	the
Hon.	Mrs	Hartley-Booth	JP.	There	followed	a	discussion	on	the	price	of	raffle	tickets,	and	a	vote	was
taken,	after	which	it	was	agreed	they	should	be	sixpence	each,	and	six	for	half	a	crown.	The	treasurer,	Mr
Maynard,	then	reported	that	the	association’s	bank	account	was	in	credit	to	the	tune	of	forty-seven	pounds
and	twelve	shillings.	He	said	he	had	written	a	follow-up	letter	to	all	those	members	who	had	not	yet	paid
their	annual	subscription.	There	being	no	other	business,	the	meeting	was	closed	at	twelve	minutes	past
ten.’
‘Thank	you,	major,’	said	the	chairman.	‘Now	let	us	move	on	to	item	two,	namely	the	list	of	candidates
recommended	by	Central	Office.	You	have	all	had	several	days	to	consider	the	names,	so	I	will	throw	the
meeting	open	for	a	general	discussion	before	we	shortlist	those	candidates	you	feel	should	be	invited	for
an	interview.’
Fisher	had	already	shown	the	list	of	candidates	to	Lady	Virginia,	and	they	had	agreed	on	the	person
they	thought	would	best	serve	their	long-term	purpose.	Fisher	sat	back	and	listened	carefully	as	his	fellow
committee	members	expressed	their	opinions	as	to	the	merits	and	shortcomings	of	each	candidate.	It
quickly	became	clear	that	his	choice	was	not	the	front-runner,	but	at	least	no	one	was	opposed	to	him.
‘Do	you	wish	to	offer	an	opinion,	major,	before	I	call	for	a	vote?’	Hawkins	asked.
‘Thank	you,	chairman.	I	agree	with	those	members	who	feel	that	Mr	Simpson,	having	fought	so	gallantly
at	Ebbw	Vale	during	the	last	election,	deserves	to	be	interviewed,	but	I	believe	we	should	also	consider
Mr	Dunnett.	After	all,	his	wife	is	a	local	girl,	which	is	a	considerable	advantage,	especially	when	you
consider	Sir	Giles	Barrington’s	current	marital	status.’
Several	‘Hear,	hears’	echoed	around	the	table.
Forty	minutes	later,	Gregory	Dunnett	was	among	those	on	the	shortlist,	together	with	Mr	Simpson,	the
former	candidate	for	Ebbw	Vale,	plus	a	local	councillor,	no	hope,	a	bachelor	over	the	age	of	forty,	no
hope,	and	the	statutory	woman,	absolutely	no	hope.	All	Fisher	needed	to	do	now	was	find	a	good	reason
for	them	not	to	select	Mr	Simpson.
As	the	meeting	was	drawing	to	a	close,	the	chairman	called	for	any	other	business.
‘I	have	something	to	report	to	the	committee,’	Fisher	said,	screwing	the	top	back	on	his	pen,	‘but	I	think
it	would	be	wise	for	it	not	to	be	recorded	in	the	minutes.’
‘I’m	sure	you’re	the	best	judge	of	that,	major,’	said	the	chairman,	glancing	around	the	table	to	confirm
that	everyone	else	present	was	in	agreement.
‘When	I	was	staying	at	my	club	in	London	last	week,’	said	Fisher,	‘I	picked	up	some	disturbing
information	from	a	reliable	source,	concerning	Sir	Giles	Barrington.’	He	now	had	the	full	attention	of	the
entire	committee.	‘As	all	of	you	will	be	aware,	Sir	Giles	is	currently	facing	divorce	proceedings
following	the	unfortunate	breakdown	of	his	marriage.	Most	of	us	felt	some	sympathy	for	him	when	he
decided	to	take	“the	Brighton	route”,	especially	after	he	let	it	be	known,	rather	ungraciously	in	my
opinion,	that	he	did	so	to	protect	his	wife’s	reputation.	We’re	all	grown	men,	and	are	all	well	aware	that
the	divorce	laws	badly	need	reforming.	However,	I	have	since	discovered	that	we	have	only	heard	half
the	story.	Sir	Giles,	it	seems,	is	conducting	an	affair	with	a	young	student	at	Cambridge	University,	despite
the	fact	that	his	wife	has	been	trying	hard	to	bring	about	a	reconciliation.’
‘Good	God,	the	man’s	a	cad,’	said	Bill	Hawkins.	‘He	should	be	made	to	resign.’
‘I	couldn’t	agree	more,	Mr	Chairman.	Indeed,	he	would	have	had	no	choice,	if	he’d	been	theConservative	candidate.’
Mumbled	conversations	broke	out	around	the	table.
‘I	do	hope,’	continued	Fisher	after	the	chairman	had	banged	his	gavel	several	times,	‘that	I	can	rely	on
the	committee	to	make	sure	this	information	does	not	go	beyond	this	room.’
‘Of	course,	of	course,’	said	the	chairman.	‘That	goes	without	saying.’
Fisher	leant	back,	confident	that	within	hours	the	story	would	have	reached	several	well-placed
members	of	the	local	Labour	Party,	which	would	guarantee	that	at	least	half	the	constituency	would	have
heard	about	it	by	the	end	of	the	week.
After	the	chairman	closed	the	meeting	and	members	began	to	make	their	way	across	the	street	to	the
local	pub,	Peter	Maynard,	the	treasurer,	sidled	up	to	Alex	and	asked	if	he	could	have	a	quiet	word.
‘Of	course,	old	chap,’	said	Alex.	‘How	can	I	help?’
‘As	you	know,	the	chairman	has	made	it	clear	on	several	occasions	that	he	intends	to	stand	down	before
the	next	general	election.’
‘I	had	heard	that.’
‘One	or	two	of	us	feel	it’s	a	job	for	a	younger	man,	and	I’ve	been	asked	to	sound	you	out	and	see	if	you
would	allow	your	name	to	be	put	forward.’
‘How	kind	of	you,	Peter.	If	the	majority	of	my	colleagues	felt	I	was	the	right	person	for	the	job,	I	would
of	course	consider	taking	on	this	onerous	task,	but	not,	you	understand,	if	another	member	of	the
committee	felt	he	could	make	a	better	fist	of	it.’
When	the	first	cheque	from	Barrington	Shipping	Co.	for	his	services	as	a	board	member	was	cleared,
Alex	closed	his	account	at	the	Midland	Bank,	and	moved	across	the	road	to	Barclays.	It	already
administered	the	Barrington	company	account,	as	well	as	acting	for	the	Conservative	Association.	And
unlike	the	Midland,	the	manager	agreed	to	allow	him	an	overdraft	facility.
The	following	day,	he	travelled	up	to	London	and	opened	an	account	with	Gieves	&	Hawkes,	where	he
was	measured	up	for	three	new	suits,	a	dinner	jacket	and	an	overcoat,	all	black.	After	lunch	at	the	Army	&
Navy	he	dropped	into	Hilditch	&	Key	and	selected	half	a	dozen	shirts,	along	with	two	pairs	of	pyjamas,	a
dressing	gown	and	a	selection	of	silk	ties.	After	signing	the	bill,	he	went	on	to	John	Lobb	and	spent	some
time	being	fitted	for	two	pairs	of	shoes,	both	brogues:	one	black,	one	brown.
‘They	should	be	ready	in	about	three	months,	major,’	he	was	told.
During	the	next	four	weeks,	he	took	out	every	member	of	the	committee	for	lunch	or	dinner,	at
Virginia’s	expense,	by	the	end	of	which	he	was	confident	that	most	of	them	would	back	Gregory	Dunnett
as	their	second	choice	for	party	candidate	at	the	upcoming	election,	and	one	or	two	of	them	had	him	as
their	preferred	choice.
Over	an	after-dinner	brandy	with	Peter	Maynard,	Fisher	discovered	that	the	party	treasurer	was
experiencing	some	temporary	financial	difficulties.	He	travelled	up	to	London	the	following	day	and,	after
a	discreet	word	with	Lady	Virginia,	those	temporary	financial	difficulties	were	removed.	One	of	the
committee	was	now	in	his	debt.18
A LEX	HAD	BEEN 	on	the	board	of	Barrington	Shipping	for	just	a	few	months	when	he	spotted	an	opportunity
he	thought	might	appeal	to	Virginia.
During	that	time,	he	had	assiduously	attended	every	board	meeting,	read	every	report,	and	always	voted
with	the	majority,	so	no	suspicion	was	ever	raised	about	what	he	was	really	up	to.
Virginia	hadn’t	been	in	any	doubt	that	Giles	would	be	suspicious	when	Alex	was	appointed	to	the
board.	She	even	wondered	if	he	would	try	to	find	out	who	owned	the	7 1 ⁄2	per	cent	of	the	company’s	stock
Fisher	represented.	If	he	did,	all	he	would	discover	was	that	it	was	held	by	a	blind	trust.	But	Giles	was
neither	blind	nor	dumb,	so	he	wouldn’t	have	needed	to	put	two	and	two	together	to	make	7 1 ⁄2.
Although	the	chairman	assured	him	that	the	major	seemed	a	decent	enough	chap,	rarely	opened	his
mouth	at	board	meetings	and	certainly	wasn’t	causing	any	trouble,	Giles	was	not	convinced.	He	didn’t
believe	Fisher	was	capable	of	changing	his	spots.	But	with	an	imminent	election	on	the	cards,	at	which
the	Tories	were	expected	to	increase	their	majority,	as	well	as	the	mystery	as	to	why	Virginia	still	hadn’t
signed	her	decree	nisi	papers	despite	her	having	begged	him	to	give	her	grounds	for	divorce,	Fisher	was
the	least	of	his	problems.
‘Gentlemen,’	said	the	chairman	of	Barrington	Shipping,	‘I	don’t	think	it	would	be	an	exaggeration	to
suggest	that	the	proposal	I’m	making	today	might	well	prove	to	be	a	turning	point	in	the	history	of	the
company.	This	bold	new	venture	proposed	by	Mr	Compton,	our	managing	director,	has	my	full	backing,
and	I	will	be	inviting	the	board	to	support	a	plan	that	the	company	build	its	first	new	passenger	liner	since
the	war,	in	an	attempt	to	keep	pace	with	our	great	rivals,	Cunard	and	P&O.	I	would	like	to	believe	that
our	founder,	Joshua	Barrington,	would	have	applauded	such	an	initiative.’
Alex	listened	intently.	He	had	come	to	respect	Sir	William	Travers,	who	had	replaced	Hugo	Barrington
–	not	that	anyone	ever	referred	to	the	past	chairman	–	as	a	shrewd	and	intelligent	operator,	regarded	by
both	the	industry	and	the	city	as	a	safe	pair	of	hands.
‘The	capital	outlay	will	unquestionably	stretch	our	reserves,’	continued	Sir	William,	‘but	our	bankers
are	willing	to	support	us,	as	our	figures	show	that	even	if	we	are	able	to	sell	only	40	per	cent	of	the	cabin
space	on	the	new	vessel,	we	would	recoup	our	investment	within	five	years.	I’ll	be	happy	to	answer	any
of	the	board’s	questions.’
‘Do	you	think	the	public	might	still	have	the	fate	of	the	Titanic	fixed	indelibly	in	their	subconscious,
making	them	wary	of	sailing	on	a	new	luxury	liner?’	asked	Fisher.
‘That’s	a	fair	point,	major,’	replied	Sir	William,	‘but	Cunard’s	recent	decision	to	add	another	vessel	to
their	fleet	would	rather	suggest	that	a	new	generation	of	travellers	have	noticed	that	there	hasn’t	been	amajor	shipping	accident	involving	a	luxury	liner	since	that	tragic	disaster	in	1912.’
‘How	long	would	it	take	for	us	to	build	this	ship?’
‘If	the	board	gives	the	go-ahead,	we	would	put	the	contract	out	to	tender	immediately,	and	hope	to
appoint	specialist	marine	architects	by	the	end	of	the	year,	with	a	view	to	the	vessel	being	launched	in
three	years’	time.’
Alex	waited	for	another	member	of	the	board	to	ask	a	question	he	didn’t	want	to	ask	himself.
‘What	is	the	estimated	cost?’
‘It’s	hard	to	give	an	exact	figure,’	admitted	Sir	William,	‘but	I	have	allowed	for	three	million	pounds	in
our	budget.	However,	I	would	consider	that	to	be	an	overestimate.’
‘Let’s	hope	so,’	said	another	board	member.	‘And	we’ll	need	to	inform	the	shareholders	what	we	have
in	mind.’
‘I	agree,’	said	Sir	William.	‘I	will	do	so	at	our	AGM	next	month,	at	which	I	shall	also	be	pointing	out
that	our	profit	forecasts	are	most	encouraging,	and	I	can	see	no	reason	why	we	shouldn’t	pay	our
shareholders	the	same	dividend	as	last	year.	Even	so,	the	board	must	face	the	possibility	that	some	of	our
shareholders	may	be	wary	of	this	change	in	direction,	not	to	mention	such	a	large	capital	outlay.	This
might	well	cause	a	fall	in	our	share	price.	However,	once	the	City	realizes	we	have	the	resources	to	cover
any	short-term	difficulties,	it	should	only	be	a	matter	of	time	before	our	shares	fully	recover.	Any	more
questions?’
‘Have	we	settled	on	a	name	for	the	new	passenger	division	of	the	company,	and	for	its	first	ship?’
asked	Fisher.
‘We’re	thinking	of	calling	the	new	division	the	Palace	Line,	and	its	first	liner	the	Buckingham,
signalling	the	company’s	commitment	to	a	new	Elizabethan	era.’
On	that,	the	board	were	in	full	agreement.
‘Explain	it	to	me	once	again,’	said	Virginia.
‘Sir	William	will	announce	at	the	AGM	next	Thursday	that	Barrington’s	is	going	to	build	a	luxury	liner
to	rival	anything	Cunard	and	P&O	currently	have	on	the	high	seas,	with	an	estimated	cost	of	three	million
pounds.’
‘That	sounds	like	a	rather	bold	and	imaginative	step	to	me.’
‘And	risky	to	others,	because	most	investors	on	the	stock	market	are	neither	bold	nor	imaginative,	and
will	be	anxious	about	the	construction	costs	rising	and	the	difficulty	of	selling	enough	cabin	space	to
cover	the	capital	expenditure.	But	if	they	were	to	check	the	accounts	carefully,	they’d	see	that	Barrington’s
has	more	than	enough	cash	to	cover	any	short-term	losses.’
‘Then	why	are	you	recommending	that	I	sell	my	shares?’
‘Because	if	you	were	to	buy	them	back	within	three	weeks	of	selling	them,	you’d	make	a	killing.’
‘That’s	the	bit	I	don’t	understand,’	said	Virginia.
‘Allow	me	to	explain,’	said	Alex.	‘When	you	buy	a	share,	you	don’t	have	to	settle	your	account	for
twenty-one	days.	Equally,	when	you	sell	a	share,	you	don’t	get	paid	for	three	weeks.	For	that	twenty-one-
day	period	you	can	trade	without	having	to	pay	out	any	money,	and	because	we	have	inside	knowledge,
we	can	take	advantage	of	that	situation.’
‘So	what	are	you	suggesting?’
‘Barrington’s	AGM	will	open	at	ten	next	Thursday	morning	with	the	chairman’s	annual	report.	Within	a
few	hours,	I	anticipate	the	share	price	will	fall	from	its	present	level	of	just	over	four	pounds	to	around
three	pounds	and	ten	shillings.	If	you	were	to	sell	your	seven	and	a	half	per	cent	holding	as	soon	as	the
market	opens	at	nine	o’clock	that	day,	it	would	cause	the	price	to	fall	even	further,	possibly	below	threepounds.	Then	you	wait	until	the	price	has	bottomed	out	before	moving	back	in	and	repurchasing	any	stock
available	at	the	lower	price,	until	you’ve	replaced	your	seven	and	a	half	per	cent.’
‘Won’t	the	brokers	become	suspicious,	and	tell	the	board	what	we’re	up	to?’
‘They’re	not	going	to	say	a	word	as	long	as	they	get	a	commission	when	they	sell	the	stock	and	another
one	when	they	buy	it	back.	They	can’t	lose	either	way.’
‘But	can	we?’
‘Only	if	the	share	price	rises	after	the	chairman’s	annual	report,	because	you’d	have	to	pay	more	to	buy
your	shares	back.	But	frankly,	that’s	unlikely	to	happen	once	the	company	announces	that	it’s	putting	three
million	pounds	of	its	reserves	at	risk.’
‘So	what	do	I	do	next?’
‘If	you	give	me	the	authority	to	act	on	your	behalf,	I’ll	place	the	business	through	a	broker	I	know	in
Hong	Kong	so	it	can’t	be	traced	back	to	either	of	us.’
‘Giles	will	work	out	what	we’re	up	to.	He’s	no	fool.’
‘Not	if	three	weeks	later	the	records	show	that	the	ownership	of	your	seven	and	a	half	per	cent	of	the
company	hasn’t	changed.	In	any	case,	he	has	far	more	pressing	problems	to	occupy	himself	with	at	the
moment.’
‘Such	as?’
‘I’m	told	he’s	facing	a	vote	of	confidence	from	the	local	Labour	Party	executive	committee,	after	they
found	out	about	his	relationship	with	Miss	Gwyneth	Hughes.	There’s	even	a	chance	he	won’t	be
contesting	the	next	election.	That’s	assuming	you	still	haven’t	signed	those	divorce	papers.’
‘Can	you	assure	me,	Major	Fisher,	that	this	investigation	has	no	connection	with	Sir	Giles	Barrington	or
Mrs	Harry	Clifton,	because	I’ve	represented	both	of	them	in	the	past,	and	that	would	create	an
unacceptable	conflict	of	interest.’
‘My	enquiries	have	nothing	to	do	with	the	Barrington	family,’	said	Fisher.	‘It’s	simply	that	the	local
Conservative	Association	has	shortlisted	two	candidates	to	be	their	representative	for	Bristol	Docklands.
As	secretary	of	the	association,	I	want	to	be	absolutely	sure	there’s	nothing	in	their	backgrounds	that	might
embarrass	the	party	at	some	future	date.’
‘Are	you	looking	for	anything	in	particular,	major?’
‘With	your	contacts	in	the	force,	I	need	you	to	find	out	if	either	of	their	names	appears	in	police
records.’
‘Does	that	include	parking	fines	or	other	non-custodial	offences?’
‘Anything	that	the	Labour	Party	could	use	to	its	advantage	during	an	election	campaign.’
‘I	get	the	picture,’	said	Mitchell.	‘How	much	time	do	I	have?’
‘The	selection	process	will	take	a	couple	of	months,	possibly	three,	but	I’ll	need	to	know	if	you	come
up	with	anything	long	before	then,’	said	Fisher,	passing	over	a	piece	of	paper	with	two	names	on	it.
Mitchell	glanced	at	the	two	names	before	placing	the	piece	of	paper	in	his	pocket.	He	left	without
another	word.
Fisher	phoned	a	private	number	in	Hong	Kong	at	nine	o’clock	on	the	morning	of	Barrington’s	Annual
General	Meeting.	When	he	heard	a	familiar	voice	come	on	the	line,	he	said,	‘Benny,	it’s	the	major.’
‘How	are	you,	major?	Long	time,	no	hear.’
‘There’s	a	reason,’	said	Fisher,	‘and	I’ll	explain	everything	when	you’re	next	in	London,	but	right	now	I
need	you	to	carry	out	a	sell	order	for	me.’‘My	pen	is	poised,’	said	Benny.
‘I	want	you	to	sell	two	hundred	thousand	shares	in	Barrington	Shipping	at	spot	price	the	moment	the
London	Stock	Exchange	opens.’
Benny	whistled.	‘Consider	it	done,’	he	said.
‘And	once	you’ve	completed	the	order,	I	want	you	to	buy	back	the	same	number	of	shares	during	the
next	twenty-one	days,	but	not	until	you	think	they’ve	bottomed	out.’
‘Understood.	Just	one	question,	major.	Should	Benny	be	placing	a	little	flutter	on	this	particular	horse?’
‘That’s	up	to	you,	but	don’t	get	greedy,	because	there’s	going	to	be	a	lot	more	where	this	came	from.’
The	major	put	down	the	phone,	walked	out	of	his	club	on	Pall	Mall	and	took	a	taxi	to	the	Savoy.	He
joined	his	fellow	directors	in	the	hotel’s	conference	room	just	a	few	minutes	before	the	chairman	rose	to
deliver	his	annual	address	to	the	shareholders	of	the	Barrington	Shipping	Company.19
T HE 	C ONSTITUTIONAL 	H ALL 	on	Davis	Street	was	packed.	Several	party	members	had	to	stand	in	the	aisle
or	at	the	back	of	the	room.	One	or	two	were	even	perched	on	windowsills	in	the	hope	of	getting	a	better
view	of	proceedings.
Both	of	the	candidates	on	the	shortlist,	Neville	Simpson	and	Gregory	Dunnett,	had	delivered	powerful
speeches,	but	Fisher	felt	that	at	that	moment	Simpson	had	the	edge	over	his	preferred	candidate.	Simpson,
a	London	barrister,	was	a	few	years	older	than	Dunnett,	had	a	fine	war	record	and	had	already	contested
an	election	against	Aneurin	Bevan	in	Ebbw	Vale,	where	he’d	increased	the	Tory	share	of	the	vote.	But
Mitchell	had	been	able	to	supply	Fisher	with	enough	information	to	embarrass	the	man.
Simpson	and	Dunnett	were	seated	on	either	side	of	the	chairman	on	the	stage,	while	the	committee	were
in	the	front	row.	The	news	that	Sir	Giles	Barrington	had	survived	a	vote	of	no	confidence	at	a	closed
meeting	of	the	local	Labour	Party	earlier	in	the	week	had	pleased	Fisher,	although	he	didn’t	admit	his
reason	to	anyone,	other	than	Virginia.	He	planned	to	humiliate	Barrington	publicly,	in	the	glare	of	a
general	election	campaign,	rather	than	in	a	dimly	lit	Labour	Party	committee	room.	But	his	plan	couldn’t
work	unless	Dunnett	became	the	Tory	candidate,	and	that	was	still	in	the	balance.
The	chairman	rose	from	his	seat	and	smiled	benignly	down	on	the	assembled	gathering.	He	gave	his
trademark	cough	before	addressing	the	faithful.
‘Before	I	call	for	questions,	I	should	like	you	to	know	that	this	will	be	my	last	meeting	as	chairman.	I
feel	the	association	should	go	into	the	general	election	with	both	a	new	candidate	and	a	new	chairman,
preferably	someone	a	lot	younger	than	me.’	He	paused	for	a	moment,	to	see	if	anyone	would	try	to	talk
him	out	of	it,	but	as	no	one	did,	he	reluctantly	continued.
‘We	now	enter	the	final	stage	of	the	meeting	before	we	select	the	man	who	will	fight	our	cause	at	the
next	election.	Members	will	have	the	opportunity	to	put	their	questions	directly	to	the	two	prospective
candidates.’
A	tall	man	leapt	up	at	the	back	of	the	hall	and	began	to	speak	even	before	Bill	Hawkins	had	called	on
anyone.
‘Mr	Chairman,	can	I	ask	both	candidates,	if	they	were	to	win	the	seat,	would	they	live	in	the
constituency?’
Simpson	was	the	first	to	respond.	‘I	would	certainly	buy	a	house	in	the	constituency,’	he	said,	‘but	I
would	expect	to	live	in	the	House	of	Commons.’
This	comment	received	laughter	and	a	smattering	of	applause.
‘I	took	the	liberty	of	visiting	an	estate	agent	last	week,’	countered	Dunnett,	‘not	in	the	anticipation,	but
in	the	hope,	that	you	will	select	me.’
The	applause	suggested	to	Fisher	that	the	gathering	was	fairly	evenly	divided.
The	chairman	pointed	to	a	woman	in	the	third	row,	who	never	failed	to	ask	a	question	whenever	theassociation	met,	so	he	decided	to	get	her	out	of	the	way	early.
‘As	one	of	you	is	a	successful	barrister,	and	the	other	an	insurance	broker,	will	you	have	enough	time	to
devote	to	this	key	marginal	seat	in	the	run-up	to	the	election?’
‘If	I	am	selected,	I	won’t	be	returning	to	London	tonight,’	said	Dunnett.	‘I	will	devote	every	hour	I’m
awake	to	winning	this	seat	and	making	sure	we	remove	Giles	Barrington	once	and	for	all.’
This	time	the	applause	was	prolonged,	and	Fisher	relaxed	for	the	first	time.
‘It’s	not	how	many	hours	you	spend,’	said	Simpson,	‘but	how	you	spend	them	that	matters.	I’ve	already
fought	a	general	election	against	a	doughty	opponent,	so	I	know	what	to	expect.	It	is	important	that	you
select	someone	who	can	learn	quickly,	and	can	use	that	knowledge	to	defeat	Giles	Barrington	and	win	this
seat	for	the	Conservative	Party.’
Fisher	was	beginning	to	feel	that	Dunnett	might	need	a	helping	hand	if	Simpson	was	to	be	derailed.	The
chairman	gestured	to	a	well-known	local	businessman.
‘Who	do	you	consider	would	be	the	right	person	to	succeed	Winston	Churchill	as	leader	of	our	party?’
‘I	didn’t	realize	there	was	a	vacancy,’	said	Simpson,	which	was	greeted	by	laughter	and	further
applause,	before	he	added	in	a	more	serious	tone,	‘We	would	be	foolish	to	think	of	replacing	the	greatest
prime	minister	of	this	century	without	a	damn	good	reason	for	doing	so.’
The	applause	was	deafening,	and	it	was	some	time	before	Dunnett	could	make	himself	heard.
‘I	believe	Mr	Churchill	has	made	it	clear	that	when	the	time	comes,	his	preferred	choice	to	succeed
him	would	be	Sir	Anthony	Eden,	our	distinguished	and	much	admired	foreign	secretary.	If	that’s	good
enough	for	Mr	Churchill,	it’s	good	enough	for	me.’
The	applause	was	not	quite	as	deafening.
Over	the	next	thirty	minutes,	as	questions	continued	to	come	thick	and	fast,	Fisher	felt	that	Simpson	was
consolidating	his	position	as	favourite.	However,	Fisher	was	confident	that	the	last	three	questions	would
assist	his	candidate,	not	least	because	he’d	planted	two	of	them,	and	had	arranged	with	the	chairman	that
he	would	ask	the	final	question	himself.
Bill	Hawkins	looked	at	his	watch.
‘I	think	there’s	just	enough	time	left	for	three	more	questions.’	He	pointed	to	a	man	at	the	back,	who	had
been	constantly	trying	to	catch	his	eye.	Fisher	smiled.
‘Would	the	two	candidates	care	to	give	their	views	on	the	proposed	new	divorce	laws?’
There	was	an	audible	gasp,	followed	by	an	expectant	hush,	as	few	people	in	the	room	doubted	that	this
question	was	aimed	at	Sir	Giles	Barrington	rather	than	either	of	the	two	candidates	on	the	stage.
‘I	intensely	dislike	our	antiquated	divorce	laws,	which	clearly	need	reforming,’	said	the	barrister.	‘I
only	hope	the	subject	doesn’t	dominate	the	election	campaign	in	this	constituency,	because	I	would	prefer
to	beat	Barrington	on	merit,	and	not	to	have	to	rely	on	rumour	and	innuendo.’
Fisher	didn’t	find	it	difficult	to	understand	why	Central	Office	considered	Simpson	to	be	a	future
cabinet	minister,	but	he	also	knew	that	this	wasn’t	the	answer	the	local	members	wanted	to	hear.
Dunnett	quickly	gauged	the	reaction	of	the	audience,	and	said,	‘While	I	agree	with	much	of	what	Mr
Simpson	has	just	said,	I	feel	the	voters	of	Bristol	Docklands	have	the	right	to	know	the	truth	about
Barrington’s	domestic	arrangements	before	they	go	to	the	ballot	box,	and	not	after.’
The	first	round	of	applause	was	clearly	in	favour	of	Dunnett.
The	chairman	pointed	to	Peter	Maynard,	who	was	seated	in	the	middle	of	the	front	row.
‘We	in	this	constituency	are	looking	for	more	than	a	Member	of	Parliament,’	said	Maynard,	reading
from	a	prepared	script.	‘Rather,	we	are	looking	for	a	partnership,	a	team.	Can	both	candidates	assure	us
that	we	will	regularly	see	their	wives	in	the	constituency	supporting	them	during	the	run-up	to	the	general
election,	because	we	never	see	Lady	Barrington	from	one	year	to	the	next.’
The	first	questioner	to	receive	a	round	of	applause.
‘My	wife	is	already	by	my	side,’	said	Dunnett,	gesturing	towards	an	attractive	young	woman	seated	inthe	second	row,	‘as	she	will	be	throughout	the	campaign.	In	fact	if	I	become	your	Member	of	Parliament,
you’ll	probably	see	a	lot	more	of	Connie	than	you	will	of	me.’
Fisher	smiled.	He	knew	the	question	played	to	Dunnett’s	strengths	and,	just	as	important,	to	Simpson’s
weakness.	Mind	you,	when	he	had	sent	out	the	letters	inviting	them	to	attend	the	meeting,	he	had	addressed
one	envelope	to	Mr	and	Mrs	Dunnett,	and	the	other	simply	to	N.	Simpson	Esq.
‘My	wife	is	a	lecturer	at	the	London	School	of	Economics,’	said	Simpson,	‘but	she	would	be	free	to
visit	the	constituency	most	weekends	and	during	the	university	holidays.’	Fisher	could	feel	the	votes
slipping	away.	‘And	I’m	sure	you’ll	agree	there	can	be	no	greater	calling	than	teaching	the	next
generation.’
The	applause	that	followed	suggested	that	one	or	two	people	didn’t	altogether	agree	that	the	LSE	was
the	best	way	of	doing	it.
‘And	finally,’	said	the	chairman,	‘I	know	that	our	secretary,	Major	Fisher,	has	a	question	for	both
candidates.’
‘I	read	in	the	Daily	Mail	this	morning,’	said	Fisher,	‘so	it’s	possibly	not	true’	–	both	candidates	laughed
dutifully	–	‘that	the	London	constituency	of	Fulham	Central	has	also	selected	its	shortlist,	and	will	be
interviewing	prospective	candidates	on	Monday.	I	wondered	if	either	of	you	are	on	that	shortlist	and,	if
you	are,	would	you	be	willing	to	withdraw	from	that	contest	before	we	vote	tonight?’
‘I	did	not	apply	for	Fulham	Central,’	said	Dunnett,	‘as	I	have	always	wanted	to	represent	a	seat	in	the
West	Country,	where	my	wife	was	born	and	bred,	and	where	we	hope	to	raise	a	family.’
Fisher	nodded.	Simpson	had	to	wait	for	the	applause	to	die	down.
‘I	am	on	the	shortlist	for	Fulham	Central,	Major	Fisher,’	he	began,	‘and	I	would	consider	it	to	be
discourteous	to	withdraw	my	name	at	such	short	notice	without	good	reason.	However,	if	I	were	fortunate
enough	to	be	selected	tonight,	I	couldn’t	have	a	better	reason	to	withdraw.’
Good	recovery,	thought	Fisher	as	he	listened	to	the	applause	that	followed.	But	was	it	good	enough?
The	chairman	rose	from	his	place.	‘I	am	sure	you	will	all	join	me	in	thanking	both	candidates	not	only
for	giving	up	their	valuable	time	to	be	with	us	tonight,	but	for	making	such	splendid	contributions.	I	have
no	doubt	that	both	will	become	Members	of	Parliament,	but	unfortunately	we	can	only	select	one	of	them.’
Yet	more	applause.	‘And	so	now	we	come	to	the	vote.	Let	me	explain	how	I	intend	to	proceed.	If
members	will	kindly	make	their	way	to	the	front	of	the	hall,	our	association	secretary	Major	Fisher	will
issue	you	with	ballot	papers.	After	you	have	placed	a	cross	beside	the	name	of	the	candidate	of	your
choice,	please	drop	your	voting	slip	into	the	ballot	box.	Once	the	count	has	been	completed	and	the
secretary	and	I	have	checked	the	papers,	which	shouldn’t	take	long,	I	will	announce	which	candidate	has
been	chosen	to	represent	the	Conservative	Party	in	Bristol	Docklands	at	the	forthcoming	general	election.’
The	members	formed	an	orderly	queue	while	Fisher	handed	out	just	over	300	ballot	papers.	After	the
last	vote	had	been	cast,	the	chairman	asked	a	steward	to	remove	the	ballot	box	and	take	it	to	a	private
room	behind	the	stage.
When	the	chairman	and	the	secretary	entered	the	room	a	few	minutes	later,	they	found	the	ballot	box	on
a	table	in	the	centre,	guarded	by	the	steward.	They	sat	down	on	two	wooden	chairs	placed	opposite	each
other.	The	steward	unlocked	the	ballot	box	before	leaving	the	room,	closing	the	door	behind	him.
Once	he	heard	the	door	close,	the	chairman	stood	up,	opened	the	box	and	tipped	the	voting	slips	out	on
to	the	table.	As	he	sat	back	down	he	asked	Fisher,	‘How	do	you	want	to	proceed?’
‘I	suggest	you	count	Simpson’s	votes	while	I	count	Dunnett’s.’
The	chairman	nodded,	and	they	began	sifting	through	the	votes.	It	quickly	became	clear	to	Fisher	that
Simpson	was	likely	to	win	by	twenty	or	thirty	votes.	He	realized	he’d	have	to	be	patient,	and	wait	for	the
right	moment.	That	moment	came	when	the	chairman	placed	the	ballot	box	on	the	floor	and	bent	down	to
check	inside	and	make	sure	he	hadn’t	missed	any	of	the	voting	slips.	It	only	took	him	a	few	seconds,	but	it
gave	Fisher	enough	time	to	reach	into	a	pocket	of	his	jacket	and	discreetly	remove	a	handful	of	votes	he’dmarked	in	favour	of	Dunnett	earlier	that	afternoon,	an	action	he’d	practised	several	times	in	front	of	a
mirror.	He	skilfully	slipped	the	votes	on	to	his	own	pile,	not	sure	if	they’d	be	enough.
‘So,’	said	Fisher,	looking	up,	‘how	many	votes	for	Simpson?’
‘One	hundred	and	sixty-eight,’	replied	the	chairman.	‘And	how	many	for	Dunnett?’
‘One	hundred	and	seventy-three.’
The	chairman	looked	surprised.
‘As	it	was	so	close,	chairman,	perhaps	it	would	be	wise	to	double	check	so	there	can	be	no	reprisals
later.’
‘Couldn’t	agree	with	you	more,’	said	the	chairman.	‘Shall	we	change	places?’
They	did	so	and	began	to	count	a	second	time.
A	few	minutes	later	the	chairman	said,	‘Spot	on,	Fisher.	One	hundred	and	seventy-three	for	Dunnett.’
‘And	I	agree	with	your	figure,	chairman.	A	hundred	and	sixty-eight	for	Simpson.’
‘You	know,	I	wouldn’t	have	thought	there	were	that	many	people	in	the	room.’
‘There	were	an	awful	lot	standing	at	the	back,’	said	Fisher.	‘And	several	sitting	in	the	aisles.’
‘That	must	explain	it,’	said	the	chairman.	‘But	I	don’t	mind	telling	you	on	the	QT,	old	boy,	that	I	voted
for	Simpson.’
‘So	did	I,’	said	Fisher.	‘But	that’s	democracy	for	you.’
The	chairman	laughed.	‘Well,	I	suppose	we’d	better	be	getting	back	and	tell	them	the	result	before	the
natives	become	restless.’
‘Perhaps	it	might	be	wise,	chairman,	to	simply	announce	the	winner,	and	not	reveal	how	close	the	vote
was?	After	all,	we	must	now	all	get	behind	the	candidate	the	association	has	selected.	Of	course,	I’ll
record	the	exact	figures	when	I	write	up	the	minutes.’
‘Good	thinking,	Fisher.’
‘I’m	sorry	to	ring	you	at	such	a	late	hour	on	a	Sunday	night,	Lady	Virginia,	but	something	has	arisen,	and	if
we’re	to	take	advantage	of	it,	I’ll	need	your	authority	to	act	immediately.’
‘This	had	better	be	good,’	said	a	sleepy	voice.
‘I’ve	just	heard	that	Sir	William	Travers,	the	chairman	of	Barrington’s—’
‘I	know	who	William	Travers	is.’
‘–died	of	a	heart	attack	a	couple	of	hours	ago.’
‘Is	that	good	news	or	bad	news?’	asked	a	voice	that	was	suddenly	awake.
‘Unquestionably	good,	because	the	share	price	is	certain	to	fall	the	moment	the	press	gets	wind	of	it,
which	is	why	I	called,	because	we’ve	only	got	a	few	hours’	start.’
‘I	presume	you	want	to	sell	my	shares	again?’
‘Yes,	I	do.	I’m	sure	I	don’t	have	to	remind	you	that	you	made	a	handsome	profit	on	the	last	occasion,	as
well	as	damaging	the	company’s	reputation.’
‘But	if	I	do	sell	again,	is	there	any	chance	the	shares	might	go	up?’
‘Shares	only	go	one	way	when	the	chairman	of	a	public	company	dies,	Lady	Virginia,	especially	when
it’s	a	heart	attack.’
‘Then	go	ahead,	sell.’20
G ILES	HAD	PROMISED 	his	sister	that	he’d	be	on	time	for	the	meeting.	He	skidded	to	a	halt	on	the	gravel
outside	the	main	building	and	parked	his	Jaguar	next	to	Emma’s	Morris	Traveller.	He	was	pleased	to	see
she	was	already	there	because,	although	they	both	owned	11	per	cent	of	the	company,	Emma	took	a	far
greater	interest	in	Barrington	Shipping’s	affairs	than	he	did,	even	more	since	she’d	embarked	on	her
degree	course	at	Stanford	with	that	double	Pulitzer	Prize-winner,	whose	name	he	could	never	remember.
‘You’d	remember	Cyrus	Feldman’s	name	well	enough	if	he	had	a	vote	in	your	constituency,’	Emma	had
mocked.
He	hadn’t	attempted	to	deny	the	charge.
Giles	smiled	as	he	jumped	out	of	his	car	and	spotted	a	group	of	children	coming	out	of	Old	Jack’s
Pullman	carriage.	Badly	neglected	in	his	father’s	day,	it	had	recently	been	returned	to	its	former	glory	and
become	a	museum	in	memory	of	the	great	man.	School	parties	paid	regular	visits	to	see	Old	Jack’s	VC
and	be	given	a	history	lesson	on	the	Boer	War.	How	long	would	it	be,	he	wondered,	before	they	were
giving	history	lessons	on	the	Second	World	War?
As	he	ran	towards	the	building,	he	wondered	why	Emma	had	felt	it	was	so	important	to	meet	the	new
chairman	tonight,	when	the	general	election	was	almost	upon	them.
Giles	didn’t	know	a	lot	about	Ross	Buchanan,	other	than	what	he’d	read	about	him	in	the	Financial
Times.	After	Fettes	he’d	studied	economics	at	Edinburgh	University	and	then	joined	P&O	as	a	graduate
trainee.	He’d	worked	his	way	up	from	the	ground	floor	to	win	a	place	on	the	board,	before	being
appointed	deputy	chairman.	He’d	been	tipped	for	chairman,	but	was	denied	the	post	when	a	member	of
the	family	decided	they	wanted	the	position.
When	Buchanan	accepted	the	Barrington	board’s	invitation	to	succeed	Sir	William	Travers,	the
company’s	shares	rose	five	shillings	on	the	announcement	of	his	appointment,	and	within	months	they’d
returned	to	the	level	they’d	reached	before	Sir	William’s	death.
Giles	glanced	at	his	watch,	not	just	because	he	was	a	few	minutes	late,	but	because	he	had	three	more
meetings	that	evening,	including	one	with	the	dockers’	union,	who	didn’t	appreciate	being	kept	waiting.
Despite	his	campaigning	for	a	forty-eight-hour	week	and	two	weeks’	guaranteed	holiday	on	full	pay	for
every	union	member,	they	remained	suspicious	of	their	Member	of	Parliament	and	his	association	with	the
shipping	company	that	bore	his	name,	even	though	this	would	be	the	first	time	he’d	entered	the	building
for	over	a	year.
He	noticed	that	the	exterior	had	been	given	a	lot	more	than	a	fresh	lick	of	paint,	and	as	he	pushed
through	the	door	he	stepped	on	to	a	thick	blue	and	gold	carpet	that	bore	the	new	Palace	Line	crest.	He
stepped	into	a	lift	and	pressed	the	button	for	the	top	floor,	and	for	once	it	didn’t	feel	as	if	it	was	being
laboriously	hauled	up	by	reluctant	galley	slaves.	As	he	stepped	out,	his	first	thought	was	of	his
grandfather,	a	revered	chairman	who	had	dragged	the	company	into	the	twentieth	century,	before	taking	itpublic.	But	then	his	thoughts	inevitably	turned	to	his	father,	who	had	nearly	brought	the	company	to	its
knees	in	half	the	time.	But	his	worst	recollection,	and	one	of	the	main	reasons	he	avoided	the	building,
was	that	this	was	where	his	father	had	been	killed.	The	only	good	thing	to	come	out	of	that	dreadful
incident	was	Jessica,	the	Berthe	Morisot	of	the	lower	fourth.
Giles	was	the	first	Barrington	not	to	become	chairman	of	the	board,	but	then	he’d	wanted	to	go	into
politics	ever	since	he’d	met	Winston	Churchill	when	he’d	presented	the	prizes	at	Bristol	Grammar	School
and	Giles	had	been	school	captain.	But	it	was	his	close	friend	Corporal	Bates,	killed	while	attempting	to
escape	the	Germans,	who’d	unwittingly	turned	him	from	blue	to	red.
He	dashed	into	the	chairman’s	office	and	gave	his	sister	a	huge	hug	before	shaking	hands	with	Ray
Compton,	who’d	been	the	company’s	managing	director	for	as	long	as	he	could	remember.
The	first	thing	that	struck	him	as	he	shook	hands	with	Ross	Buchanan	was	how	much	younger	he	looked
than	his	fifty-two	years.	But	then	he	recalled	the	Financial	Times	pointing	out	that	Buchanan	didn’t	smoke
or	drink,	played	squash	three	times	a	week,	turned	the	lights	out	at	10.30	p.m.	and	rose	at	6	o’clock	every
morning.	Not	a	regime	that	would	suit	a	politician.
‘It’s	a	pleasure	to	meet	you	at	last,	Sir	Giles,’	said	Buchanan.
‘The	dock	workers	call	me	Giles,	so	perhaps	the	management	should	as	well.’
The	laughter	broke	any	slight	tension	that	Giles’s	political	antennae	had	picked	up.	He	had	assumed	this
was	a	casual	get-together	so	he	could	finally	meet	Buchanan,	but	from	the	looks	on	their	faces,	something
far	more	serious	was	on	the	agenda.
‘This	doesn’t	look	good,’	said	Giles	as	he	slumped	into	a	seat	next	to	Emma.
‘I’m	afraid	it	isn’t,’	said	Buchanan,	‘and	I	wouldn’t	have	bothered	you	so	close	to	the	election	if	I
hadn’t	thought	you	ought	to	be	briefed	immediately.	I’ll	get	straight	to	the	point.	You	may	have	noticed	that
the	company’s	share	price	fell	quite	dramatically	following	my	predecessor’s	death.’
‘Yes,	I	did,’	said	Giles.	‘But	I	assumed	there	was	nothing	unusual	in	that.’
‘In	normal	circumstances	you’d	be	right,	but	what	was	unusual	was	how	quickly	the	shares	fell,	and
how	far.’
‘But	they	seem	to	have	fully	recovered	since	you	took	over.’
‘They	have,’	said	the	chairman,	‘but	I	don’t	think	I	was	the	sole	reason	for	that.	And	I	wondered	if	there
could	be	another	explanation	for	the	inexplicable	downturn	in	the	company’s	share	price	after	Sir
William’s	death,	especially	after	Ray	brought	to	my	attention	that	it	wasn’t	the	first	time	it	had	happened.’
‘That’s	correct,	chairman,’	said	Compton.	‘The	shares	dropped	just	as	suddenly	when	we	announced
our	decision	to	go	into	the	passenger	liner	business.’
‘But	if	I	remember	correctly,’	said	Emma,	‘they	also	returned	to	a	new	high.’
‘They	did	indeed,’	said	Buchanan.	‘But	it	took	several	months	before	they	fully	recovered,	and	it	didn’t
do	the	company’s	reputation	any	good.	While	one	can	accept	such	an	anomaly	once,	when	it	happens	a
second	time,	one	starts	to	wonder	if	a	pattern	is	emerging.	I	don’t	have	the	time	to	be	continually	looking
over	my	shoulder,	wondering	when	it	might	happen	again.’	Buchanan	ran	a	hand	through	his	thick,	sandy
hair.	‘I’m	running	a	public	company,	not	a	casino.’
‘You’re	going	to	tell	me	that	both	these	incidents	took	place	after	Alex	Fisher	joined	the	board.’
‘You	know	Major	Fisher?’
‘That’s	far	too	involved	a	story	to	bore	you	with	right	now,	Ross.	That	is,	if	I’m	going	to	make	the	dock
workers’	meeting	before	midnight.’
‘All	the	indications	do	seem	to	point	in	Fisher’s	direction,’	said	Buchanan.	‘On	both	occasions	a	trade
of	two	hundred	thousand	shares	was	executed,	which	happens	to	be	almost	exactly	the	seven	and	a	half
per	cent	of	the	company	he	represents.	The	first	was	just	hours	before	the	AGM	at	which	we	announced
our	change	of	policy,	and	the	second	immediately	followed	Sir	William’s	untimely	death.’
‘It’s	too	much	of	a	coincidence,’	said	Emma.‘It	gets	worse,’	said	Buchanan.	‘On	each	occasion,	during	the	three-week	window,	after	the	share	price
had	fallen	so	precipitously,	the	broker	who	sold	them	repurchased	exactly	the	same	amount,	making	his
client	a	handsome	profit.’
‘And	you	think	that	client	was	Fisher?’	asked	Emma.
‘No,	it’s	too	large	a	sum	for	him,’	said	Giles.
‘I’m	sure	you’re	right,’	said	Buchanan.	‘He	must	have	been	acting	on	behalf	of	someone	else.’
‘Lady	Virginia	Barrington	would	be	my	guess,’	said	Giles.
‘That	had	crossed	my	mind,’	admitted	Buchanan,	‘but	I	can	prove	that	Fisher	was	behind	it.’
‘How?’
‘I	had	the	stock	exchange	records	for	both	three-week	periods	checked,’	said	Compton,	‘and	both	sales
came	out	of	Hong	Kong,	through	a	dealer	called	Benny	Driscoll.	It	didn’t	take	a	lot	of	research	to
discover	that	not	so	long	ago	Driscoll	left	Dublin	only	a	few	hours	ahead	of	the	Garda,	and	he	certainly
won’t	be	returning	to	the	Emerald	Isle	in	the	near	future.’
‘It’s	thanks	to	your	sister	that	we	were	able	to	get	to	the	bottom	of	it,’	said	Buchanan.	Giles	looked	at
Emma	in	surprise.	‘She	recommended	that	we	employ	a	Mr	Derek	Mitchell,	who	had	assisted	her	in	the
past.	Mr	Mitchell	flew	to	Hong	Kong	at	our	request,	and	once	he	located	the	one	bar	on	the	island	that
serves	Guinness,	it	took	him	about	a	week	and	several	emptied	crates	to	find	out	the	name	of	Benny
Driscoll’s	biggest	client.’
‘So	at	last	we	can	remove	Fisher	from	the	board,’	said	Giles.
‘I	wish	it	were	that	easy,’	said	Buchanan.	‘He	has	the	right	to	a	place	on	the	board,	as	long	as	he
represents	seven	and	a	half	per	cent	of	the	company’s	stock.	And	the	only	proof	we	have	of	his	duplicity
is	a	drunken	stockbroker	living	in	Hong	Kong.’
‘Does	that	mean	there’s	nothing	we	can	do?’
‘Far	from	it,’	said	Buchanan.	‘That’s	the	reason	I	needed	to	see	you	and	Mrs	Clifton	urgently.	I	believe
the	time	has	come	to	play	Major	Fisher	at	his	own	game.’
‘Count	me	in.’
‘I’d	like	to	hear	what	you	have	in	mind	before	I	make	a	decision,’	said	Emma.
‘Of	course.’	Buchanan	opened	a	file	in	front	of	him.	‘Between	the	two	of	you,	you	own	twenty-two	per
cent	of	the	company’s	stock.	That	makes	you	by	far	the	largest	shareholders,	and	I	wouldn’t	consider
going	ahead	with	any	plan	without	your	blessing.’
‘We	have	no	doubt,’	chipped	in	Ray	Compton,	‘that	Lady	Virginia’s	long-term	aim	is	to	cripple	the
company,	making	regular	raids	on	our	stock	position	until	we	lose	all	credibility.’
‘And	you	think	she’d	do	that	simply	to	get	back	at	me?’	said	Giles.
‘As	long	as	she’s	got	someone	on	the	inside,	she	knows	exactly	when	to	strike,’	said	Buchanan,
avoiding	Giles’s	question.
‘But	doesn’t	she	risk	losing	a	great	deal	of	money	using	these	tactics?’	asked	Emma.
‘Virginia	won’t	give	a	damn	about	that,’	said	Giles.	‘If	she	could	destroy	the	company	and	me	along
with	it,	she’d	be	more	than	satisfied,	as	my	mother	worked	out	long	before	I	did.’
‘What	makes	matters	worse,’	said	the	chairman,	‘is	that	we	estimate	that	her	two	previous	raids	on	our
stock	have	shown	her	a	profit	of	over	seventy	thousand	pounds.	That’s	why	we’ve	got	to	move	now,
before	she	strikes	again.’
‘What	do	you	have	in	mind?’	asked	Emma.
‘Let	us	assume,’	said	Compton,	‘that	Fisher	is	just	waiting	for	another	piece	of	bad	news	so	he	can
repeat	the	whole	exercise	again.’
‘And	if	we	were	to	supply	him	with	it	.	.	.’	said	Buchanan.
‘But	how	does	that	help	us?’	said	Emma.
‘Because	this	time	it	would	be	our	turn	to	be	the	insider	traders,’	said	Compton.‘When	Driscoll	puts	Lady	Virginia’s	seven	and	a	half	per	cent	on	the	market,	we’ll	buy	it	immediately,
and	the	share	price	will	go	up,	not	down.’
‘But	that	could	cost	us	a	fortune,’	said	Emma.
‘Not	if	we	feed	Fisher	the	wrong	information,’	said	Buchanan.	‘With	your	blessing,	I’m	going	to	try	to
convince	him	that	the	company	is	facing	a	financial	crisis	that	might	threaten	its	very	existence.	I’ll	let	him
know	we	won’t	be	declaring	a	profit	this	year	due	to	the	cost	of	building	the	Buckingham,	which	is
already	running	twenty	per	cent	over	budget,	so	it	won’t	be	possible	to	offer	our	shareholders	a
dividend.’
‘If	you	do	that,’	said	Emma,	‘you’re	assuming	he’ll	advise	Virginia	to	sell	her	stock,	with	the	intention
of	buying	it	all	back	at	a	lower	price	during	the	three-week	trading	period.’
‘Exactly.	But	if	the	share	price	were	to	rise	during	those	three	weeks,’	continued	Ray,	‘Lady	Virginia
might	be	unwilling	to	buy	her	seven	and	a	half	per	cent	back,	in	which	case	Fisher	would	lose	his	place
on	the	board,	and	we’d	be	rid	of	both	of	them.’
‘How	much	are	you	going	to	need	to	make	this	happen?’	asked	Giles.
‘I’m	confident,’	said	Buchanan,	‘if	I	had	a	war	chest	of	half	a	million	pounds,	I	could	keep	them	at	bay.’
‘And	the	timing?’
‘I’ll	deliver	the	bad	news	in	confidence	at	the	next	board	meeting,	pointing	out	that	the	shareholders
will	have	to	be	informed	at	the	AGM.’
‘When	is	the	AGM?’
‘That’s	where	I	need	your	advice,	Sir	Giles.	Do	you	have	any	idea	when	the	general	election	will	be
called?’
‘The	smart	money’s	on	May	twenty-sixth,	and	that’s	certainly	the	date	I’m	planning	on.’
‘When	will	we	know	for	certain?’	asked	Buchanan.
‘There’s	usually	about	a	month’s	warning	before	Parliament	is	prorogued.’
‘Good,	then	I’ll	call	the	board	meeting	for	–’	he	turned	some	pages	in	his	diary	–	‘April	eighteenth,	and
schedule	the	AGM	for	May	fifth.’
‘Why	would	you	want	to	hold	the	AGM	in	the	middle	of	an	election	campaign?’	asked	Emma.
‘Because	it’s	the	one	time	I	can	guarantee	that	a	constituency	chairman	will	not	be	able	to	attend.’
‘Chairman?’	queried	Giles,	showing	far	more	interest.
‘You	clearly	haven’t	read	the	evening	paper,’	said	Ray	Compton,	handing	him	a	copy	of	the	Bristol
Evening	Post.
Giles	read	the	headline:	Former	Tobruk	hero	becomes	Bristol	Docklands	Conservative	Chairman.
Major	Alex	Fisher	was	unanimously	voted	.	.	.
‘What’s	that	man	up	to?’	he	said.
‘He	assumes	you’re	going	to	lose	the	election,	and	wants	to	be	chairman	when—’
‘If	that	was	true,	he	would	have	backed	Neville	Simpson	and	not	Greg	Dunnett	to	be	the	Conservative
candidate,	because	Simpson	would	have	proved	a	far	more	formidable	opponent.	He’s	up	to	something.’
‘What	would	you	like	us	to	do,	Mr	Buchanan?’	asked	Emma,	remembering	why	the	chairman	had	asked
to	see	her	and	Giles	in	the	first	place.
‘I	need	your	authority	to	buy	every	share	that	comes	on	to	the	market	on	May	fifth,	and	to	keep	on
buying	for	the	following	three	weeks.’
‘How	much	could	we	lose?’
‘I’m	afraid	it	might	be	as	much	as	twenty	to	thirty	thousand	pounds.	But	at	least	this	time	we’ve	chosen
the	date	of	the	battle,	and	the	battlefield,	so	you	should	break	even	at	worst,	and	you	might	possibly	make
a	bob	or	two.’
‘If	it	means	replacing	Fisher	on	the	board,’	said	Giles,	‘as	well	as	spiking	Virginia’s	guns,	thirty
thousand	pounds	would	be	a	cheap	price	to	pay.’‘While	we’re	on	the	subject	of	replacing	Fisher	as	a	board	member	.	.	.’
‘I’m	not	available,’	said	Giles,	‘even	if	I	do	lose	my	seat	at	the	election.’
‘I	wasn’t	thinking	of	you,	Sir	Giles.	I	was	rather	hoping	Mrs	Clifton	might	agree	to	become	a	member
of	the	board.’
‘The	prime	minister,	Sir	Anthony	Eden,	visited	Buckingham	Palace	at	four	o’clock	this	afternoon,	for
an	audience	with	Her	Majesty	The	Queen.	Sir	Anthony	asked	Her	Majesty’s	permission	to	dissolve
Parliament	in	order	that	a	General	Election	could	be	held	on	May	26th.	Her	Majesty	graciously
agreed	to	his	request.’
‘Just	as	you	predicted,’	said	Virginia	as	she	switched	off	the	radio.	‘When	do	you	intend	to	tell	the
unfortunate	Mr	Dunnett	what	you	have	in	mind	for	him?’
‘Timing	is	everything,’	said	Fisher.	‘I	thought	I’d	wait	until	Sunday	afternoon	before	I	asked	him	to
come	and	see	me.’
‘Why	Sunday	afternoon?’
‘I	don’t	want	any	other	members	of	the	committee	to	be	around	at	the	time.’
‘Machiavelli	would	have	been	proud	to	have	you	as	chairman	of	his	committee,’	said	Virginia.
‘Machiavelli	didn’t	believe	in	committees.’
Virginia	laughed.	‘And	when	do	you	plan	to	ring	our	friend	in	Hong	Kong?’
‘I’ll	call	Benny	the	night	before	the	AGM.	It’s	important	that	he	places	the	sell	order	the	moment
Buchanan	rises	to	address	the	meeting.’
Virginia	took	a	Passing	Cloud	out	of	her	cigarette	case,	sat	back,	and	waited	for	the	major	to	strike	a
match.	She	inhaled	a	couple	of	times	before	she	said,	‘Don’t	you	think	it’s	a	coincidence,	major,	that
everything	is	falling	so	neatly	into	place	on	the	same	day?’21
‘D UNNETT,	IT’S	GOOD 	of	you	to	drop	in	at	such	short	notice,	especially	on	a	Sunday	afternoon.’
‘My	pleasure,	Mr	Chairman.	I	know	you’ll	be	pleased	to	hear	how	well	our	canvassing	is	going.	The
early	returns	suggest	we	should	win	the	seat	by	over	a	thousand	votes.’
‘Let’s	hope	you’re	right,	Dunnett,	for	the	party’s	sake,	because	I’m	afraid	my	news	is	not	so	good.
You’d	better	have	a	seat.’
The	cheerful	smile	on	the	candidate’s	face	was	replaced	with	a	quizzical	look.	‘What’s	the	problem,
Mr	Chairman?’	he	asked	as	he	sat	down	in	the	chair	opposite	Fisher.
‘I	think	you	know	only	too	well	what	the	problem	is.’
Dunnett	began	biting	his	lower	lip	as	he	stared	at	the	chairman.
‘When	you	applied	for	this	seat	and	supplied	the	committee	with	your	CV,’	continued	Fisher,	‘it	appears
you	weren’t	entirely	frank	with	us.’	Fisher	had	only	ever	seen	a	man	turn	that	white	on	the	battlefield.
‘You’ll	recall	that	you	were	asked	to	state	what	role	you	played	during	the	war.’	Fisher	picked	up
Dunnett’s	CV	from	his	desk	and	read	out	loud:	‘Because	of	an	injury	sustained	on	the	rugby	field,	I	had	no
choice	but	to	serve	in	the	Royal	Ambulance	Corps.’
Dunnett	slumped	in	his	chair,	like	a	marionette	that	had	had	its	strings	cut.
‘I	have	recently	discovered	that	this	statement	was	at	best	misleading,	and	at	worst	duplicitous.’
Dunnett	closed	his	eyes.	‘The	truth	is	that	you	were	a	conscientious	objector,	and	served	six	months	in
prison.	It	was	only	after	being	released	that	you	joined	the	ambulance	service.’
‘But	that	was	more	than	ten	years	ago,’	said	Dunnett	desperately.	‘There’s	no	reason	that	anyone	else
should	find	out.’
‘I	wish	that	were	the	case,	Dunnett,	but	sadly	we’ve	had	a	letter	from	someone	who	served	in	Parkhurst
with	you,’	said	Fisher,	holding	up	an	envelope	that	contained	nothing	more	than	a	gas	bill.	‘If	I	were	to	go
along	with	this	deception,	Dunnett,	I	would	be	condoning	your	dishonesty.	And	if	the	truth	came	out	during
the	campaign	or,	even	worse,	when	you	were	a	Member	of	Parliament,	I	would	have	to	admit	to	my
colleagues	that	I	already	knew	about	it,	and	they	would	rightly	call	for	my	resignation.’
‘But	I	can	still	win	this	election,	if	only	you’ll	back	me.’
‘And	Barrington	would	win	by	a	landslide	if	the	Labour	Party	got	to	hear	of	this.	Don’t	forget	that	he
not	only	won	an	MC,	but	escaped	from	a	German	prisoner-of-war	camp.’
Dunnett	bowed	his	head	and	began	to	weep.
‘Pull	yourself	together,	Dunnett,	and	behave	like	a	gentleman.	There’s	still	an	honourable	way	out.’
Dunnett	looked	up,	and	for	a	moment	an	expression	of	hope	flickered	across	his	face.	Fisher	pushed	a
blank	sheet	of	the	constituency’s	headed	notepaper	across	to	Dunnett,	and	took	the	top	off	his	fountain	pen.
‘Why	don’t	we	work	on	this	together?’	he	said	as	he	handed	the	pen	to	him.
‘Dear	Mr	Chairman,’	dictated	Fisher,	as	Dunnett	reluctantly	began	to	write.	‘It	is	with	great	regret	that	Ifind	it	necessary	to	tender	my	resignation	as	the	Conservative	Party	candidate	at	the	forthcoming	general
election	–’	Fisher	paused	before	adding	–	‘for	health	reasons.’
Dunnett	looked	up.
‘Does	your	wife	know	you	were	a	conscientious	objector?’
Dunnett	shook	his	head.
‘Then	let’s	keep	it	that	way,	shall	we?’	Fisher	gave	him	an	understanding	smile	before	continuing.	‘I
would	like	to	say	how	sorry	I	am	to	have	caused	the	committee	this	inconvenience	so	close	to	the	election
–’	Fisher	paused	again,	and	watched	as	Dunnett’s	trembling	hand	stuttered	across	the	page	–	‘and	wish
whoever	is	fortunate	enough	to	take	my	place	the	best	of	luck.	Yours	sincerely.	.	.’	He	didn’t	speak	again
until	Dunnett	had	written	his	signature	at	the	bottom	of	the	page.
Fisher	picked	up	the	letter	and	checked	the	text	carefully.	Satisfied,	he	slipped	it	into	an	envelope	and
pushed	it	back	across	the	table.
‘Just	address	it	“The	Chairman,	private	and	personal”.’
Dunnett	obeyed,	having	accepted	his	fate.
‘I’m	so	sorry,	Dunnett,’	said	Fisher	as	he	screwed	the	top	back	on	his	pen.	‘I	really	do	feel	for	you.’	He
placed	the	envelope	in	the	top	drawer	of	his	desk,	which	he	then	locked.	‘But	chin	up,	old	fellow.’	He
rose	from	his	chair	and	took	Dunnett	by	the	elbow.	‘I’m	sure	you’ll	realize	I’ve	always	had	your	best
interests	at	heart,’	he	added	as	he	led	him	slowly	to	the	door.	‘It	might	be	wise	if	you	were	to	leave	the
constituency	as	quickly	as	possible.	Wouldn’t	want	some	nosy	journalist	to	get	his	hands	on	the	story,
would	we?’
Dunnett	looked	horrified.
‘And	before	you	ask,	Greg,	you	can	rely	on	my	discretion.’
‘Thank	you,	Mr	Chairman,’	said	Dunnett	as	the	door	closed.
Fisher	returned	to	his	office,	picked	up	the	phone	on	his	desk	and	dialled	a	number	that	was	written	on
the	pad	in	front	of	him.
‘Peter,	it’s	Alex	Fisher.	Sorry	to	bother	you	on	a	Sunday	afternoon,	but	a	problem	has	arisen	that	I	need
to	discuss	with	you	urgently.	I	wonder	if	you’re	free	to	join	me	for	dinner?’
‘Gentlemen,	it	is	with	considerable	regret	that	I	have	to	inform	you	that	yesterday	afternoon	I	had	a	visit
from	Gregory	Dunnett,	who	sadly	felt	he	had	to	tender	his	resignation	as	our	parliamentary	candidate,
which	is	why	I	called	this	emergency	meeting.’
Almost	every	member	of	the	executive	committee	started	talking	at	the	same	time.	The	word	that	kept
being	repeated	was,	why?
Fisher	waited	patiently	for	order	to	be	restored	before	he	answered	that	question.	‘Dunnett	confessed	to
me	that	he	misled	the	committee	when	he	suggested	he	had	served	with	the	Royal	Ambulance	Corps
during	the	war,	when	in	fact	he	had	been	a	conscientious	objector	who	served	a	six-month	prison
sentence.	He	got	wind	that	one	of	his	fellow	inmates	at	Parkhurst	had	been	approached	by	the	press,
which	he	felt	left	him	with	no	option	but	to	resign.’
The	second	outburst	of	opinions	and	questions	was	even	more	vociferous,	but	once	again	Fisher	bided
his	time.	He	could	afford	to.	He’d	written	the	script	and	knew	what	was	on	the	next	page.
‘I	felt	I	was	left	with	no	choice	but	to	accept	his	resignation	on	your	behalf,	and	we	agreed	that	he
should	leave	the	constituency	as	quickly	as	possible.	I	hope	you	won’t	feel	I	was	too	lenient	on	the	young
man.’
‘How	can	we	possibly	find	another	candidate	at	such	short	notice?’	asked	Peter	Maynard,	bang	on	cue.
‘That	was	also	my	first	reaction,’	said	Fisher,	‘so	I	immediately	phoned	Central	Office	to	seek	theirguidance,	but	there	were	not	many	people	at	their	desks	on	a	Sunday	afternoon.	However,	I	did	discover
one	thing	when	I	spoke	to	their	legal	department,	which	you	may	feel	is	significant.	Should	we	fail	to
adopt	a	candidate	before	May	the	twelfth,	next	Thursday,	under	electoral	law	we	will	be	disqualified
from	taking	any	part	in	the	election,	which	would	guarantee	Barrington	a	landslide	victory,	as	his	only
opponent	would	be	the	Liberal	candidate.’
The	noise	around	the	table	reached	fever	pitch,	but	Fisher	had	never	doubted	it	would.	Once	a
semblance	of	order	had	returned,	he	continued.	‘My	next	call	was	to	Neville	Simpson.’
A	few	hopeful	smiles	appeared	among	the	committee	members.
‘But	sadly	he’s	been	snapped	up	by	Fulham	Central,	and	has	already	signed	his	adoption	papers.	I	then
scoured	the	original	list	sent	to	us	by	Central	Office,	only	to	find	that	the	better	candidates	have	already
secured	a	seat,	and	those	who	are	still	available	would,	frankly,	be	eaten	alive	by	Barrington.	So,	I’m	in
your	hands,	gentlemen.’
Several	hands	shot	up	and	Fisher	selected	Peter	Maynard,	as	if	he’d	been	the	first	person	to	catch	his
eye.
‘This	is	a	sad	day	for	the	party,	Mr	Chairman,	but	I	don’t	feel	anyone	could	have	handled	this	delicate
situation	better	than	you	have	done.’
A	general	murmur	of	approval	swept	around	the	table.
‘It’s	kind	of	you	to	say	so,	Peter.	I	simply	did	what	I	felt	was	best	for	the	association.’
‘And	I	can	only	speak	for	myself,	Mr	Chairman,’	continued	Maynard,	‘when	I	say	that,	given	the
problem	we	find	ourselves	with,	is	it	at	all	possible	that	you	could	be	prevailed	upon	to	step	into	the
breach?’
‘No,	no,’	said	Fisher,	waving	a	Cassius-like	hand.	‘I’m	sure	you’ll	be	able	to	find	someone	far	better
qualified	than	me	to	represent	you.’
‘But	no	one	knows	the	constituency,	or	for	that	matter	our	opponent,	better	than	you,	Mr	Chairman.’
Fisher	allowed	several	similar	sentiments	to	be	aired,	before	the	party	secretary	said,	‘I	agree	with
Peter.	We	certainly	can’t	afford	to	waste	any	more	time.	The	longer	we	procrastinate,	the	happier
Barrington	will	be.’
After	Fisher	felt	confident	that	this	opinion	seemed	to	be	accepted	by	the	majority	of	the	committee,	he
bowed	his	head,	a	sign	for	Maynard	to	stand	up	and	say,	‘I	propose	that	Major	Alex	Fisher	be	invited	to
stand	as	the	Conservative	prospective	parliamentary	candidate	for	the	Bristol	Docklands	division.’
Fisher	raised	an	eye	to	see	if	anyone	would	second	the	proposal.	The	secretary	obliged.
‘Those	in	favour,’	said	Maynard.	Several	hands	around	the	table	shot	up.	Maynard	waited	until	the	last
reluctant	hand	finally	joined	the	majority,	before	saying,	‘I	declare	the	motion	carried	unanimously.’	The
announcement	was	followed	by	loud	applause.
‘I	am	quite	overwhelmed,	gentlemen,’	said	Fisher,	‘and	I	accept	the	confidence	you	have	shown	in	me
with	humility,	because	as	you	all	know,	I	have	always	put	the	party	first,	and	this	is	the	last	outcome	I
could	have	envisaged.	However,	you	can	be	assured,’	he	continued,	‘that	I	will	do	everything	in	my
power	to	defeat	Giles	Barrington	at	the	election,	and	return	a	Conservative	to	the	House	of	Commons	to
represent	Bristol	Docklands’	–	a	speech	he	had	rehearsed	several	times,	as	he	knew	he	wouldn’t	be	able
to	refer	to	any	notes.
The	committee	shot	out	of	their	seats	and	began	applauding	loudly.	Fisher	bowed	his	head	and	smiled.
He	would	call	Virginia	as	soon	as	he	got	home,	and	tell	her	that	the	small	payment	she’d	authorized	for
Mitchell	to	discover	if	any	of	the	candidates	had	something	in	their	backgrounds	that	might	embarrass	the
party	had	proved	a	more	than	worthwhile	investment.	Fisher	now	felt	confident	that	he	could	humiliate
Barrington,	and	this	time	it	would	be	on	the	battlefield.‘Benny,	it’s	Major	Fisher.’
‘Always	good	to	hear	from	you,	major,	especially	as	a	little	bird	tells	me	that	congratulations	are	in
order.’
‘Thank	you,’	said	Fisher,	‘but	that’s	not	why	I’m	phoning.’
‘My	pen	is	poised,	major.’
‘I	want	you	to	carry	out	the	same	transaction	as	before,	but	this	time	there’s	no	reason	why	you
shouldn’t	have	a	little	flutter	yourself.’
‘You	must	be	very	sure	of	yourself,	major,’	said	Benny.	When	he	received	no	reply,	he	added,	‘So	that’s
a	sell	order	for	two	hundred	thousand	Barrington’s	shares.’
‘Confirmed,’	said	Fisher.	‘But	once	again,	the	timing	is	vital.’
‘Just	tell	me	when	you	want	to	place	the	order,	major.’
‘On	May	the	fifth,	the	day	of	Barrington’s	AGM.	But	it’s	important	the	transaction	is	settled	before	ten
o’clock	that	morning.’
‘Consider	it	done.’	After	a	moment’s	pause,	Benny	added,	‘So	the	whole	transaction	will	be	completed
by	the	day	of	the	election?’
‘That’s	right.’
‘What	an	ideal	day	for	killing	two	birds	with	one	stone.’GILES	BARRINGTON
195522
I T	WAS	JUST 	after	midnight	when	the	phone	rang.	Giles	knew	there	was	only	one	person	who’d	dare	to	call
him	at	that	hour.
‘Don’t	you	ever	go	to	bed,	Griff?’
‘Not	when	the	Conservative	candidate	resigns	halfway	through	an	election	campaign,’	replied	his
agent.
‘What	are	you	talking	about?’	said	Giles,	suddenly	wide	awake.
‘Greg	Dunnett	has	resigned,	stating	health	reasons.	But	there	has	to	be	a	lot	more	to	it	than	that,	since
Fisher	has	taken	his	place.	Try	to	get	some	sleep,	as	I	need	you	in	the	office	by	seven	so	we	can	decide
how	to	play	this.	Frankly,	as	the	Americans	would	say,	it’s	a	whole	different	ball	game.’
But	Giles	didn’t	sleep.	He’d	thought	for	some	time	that	Fisher	was	up	to	something,	and	now	he	knew
what	it	was.	He	must	have	planned	to	be	the	candidate	from	the	start.	Dunnett	was	nothing	more	than	a
sacrificial	lamb.
Giles	had	already	accepted	that	as	he	was	defending	a	majority	of	only	414,	and	the	polls	were
predicting	that	the	Tories	would	increase	their	number	of	seats,	he	had	a	real	fight	on	his	hands.	And	now
he	was	up	against	someone	he	knew	was	willing	to	send	men	to	their	graves	if	he	thought	it	would	help
him	survive.	Gregory	Dunnett	was	his	latest	victim.
Harry	and	Emma	turned	up	at	Barrington	Hall	the	following	morning.	They	found	Giles	having	breakfast.
‘No	more	lunches	or	dinners	for	the	next	three	weeks,’	said	Giles	as	he	buttered	another	piece	of	toast.
‘Just	wearing	out	shoe	leather	on	hard	pavements,	and	shaking	hands	with	countless	constituents.	And
make	sure	you	two	stay	out	of	the	way.	I	don’t	need	anyone	to	be	reminded	that	my	sister	and	brother-in-
law	are	staunch	Tories.’
‘We’ll	also	be	out	there,	working	for	a	cause	we	believe	in,’	said	Emma.
‘That’s	all	I	need.’
‘As	soon	as	we	heard	Fisher	was	standing	for	the	Conservatives,	we	decided	to	become	fully	paid-up
members	of	the	Labour	Party,’	said	Harry.	‘We	even	sent	a	donation	to	your	fighting	fund.’
Giles	stopped	eating.
‘And	for	the	next	three	weeks,	we	intend	to	work	night	and	day	for	you,	right	up	to	the	moment	the	polls
close,	if	it	will	help	ensure	Fisher	doesn’t	win.’
‘But,’	said	Emma,	‘there	are	one	or	two	conditions	before	we	agree	to	ditch	our	long-held	principles
and	support	you.’
‘I	knew	there	had	to	be	a	catch,’	said	Giles,	pouring	himself	a	large	black	coffee.
‘You’ll	come	and	live	with	us	in	the	Manor	House	for	the	rest	of	the	campaign.	Otherwise,	with	onlyGriff	Haskins	to	take	care	of	you,	you’ll	end	up	eating	fish	and	chips,	drinking	far	too	much	beer,	and
sleeping	on	the	floor	of	the	constituency	office.’
‘You’re	probably	right.	But	I	warn	you,	I’ll	never	be	home	before	midnight.’
‘That’s	fine.	Just	make	sure	you	don’t	wake	Jessica.’
‘Agreed.’	Giles	stood	up,	a	piece	of	toast	in	one	hand,	a	newspaper	in	the	other.	‘See	you	this	evening.’
‘Don’t	leave	the	table	until	you’ve	finished	eating,’	said	Emma,	sounding	exactly	like	their	mother.
Giles	laughed.	‘Mama	never	had	to	fight	an	election,’	he	reminded	his	sister.
‘She’d	have	made	a	damn	good	MP,’	said	Harry.
‘That’s	something	we	can	all	agree	on,’	said	Giles	as	he	dashed	out	of	the	room,	still	clutching	the
toast.
He	had	a	quick	word	with	Denby	before	running	out	of	the	house,	where	he	found	Harry	and	Emma
sitting	in	the	back	of	his	Jaguar.
‘What	are	you	two	doing?’	he	asked,	as	he	climbed	behind	the	wheel	of	his	car	and	turned	on	the
ignition.
‘We’re	off	to	work,’	said	Emma.	‘We	need	a	lift	if	we’re	going	to	sign	up	as	volunteers.’
‘You	do	realize,’	said	Giles	as	he	drove	out	on	to	the	main	road,	‘it’s	an	eighteen-hour	day,	and	you’re
not	paid.’
When	they	followed	Giles	into	his	constituency	headquarters	twenty	minutes	later,	Emma	and	Harry
were	impressed	by	how	many	volunteers	of	all	ages,	shapes	and	sizes	were	bustling	about	in	every
direction.	Giles	hurried	them	through	to	his	agent’s	office	and	introduced	them	to	Griff	Haskins.
‘Two	more	volunteers,’	he	said.
‘Some	very	strange	people	have	been	joining	our	cause	since	Alex	Fisher	became	the	Tory	candidate.
Welcome	aboard,	Mr	and	Mrs	Clifton.	Now,	have	either	of	you	ever	canvassed	before?’
‘No,	never,’	admitted	Harry.	‘Not	even	for	the	Tories.’
‘Then	follow	me,’	said	Griff,	leading	them	back	into	the	main	room.	He	stopped	in	front	of	a	long
trestle	table	laid	out	with	rows	of	clipboards.	‘Each	one	of	these	represents	a	street	or	road	in	the
constituency,’	he	explained,	handing	each	of	them	a	clipboard	and	a	set	of	red,	green	and	blue	pencils.
‘It’s	your	lucky	day,’	continued	Griff.	‘You’ve	got	the	Woodbine	estate,	which	is	one	of	our	strongholds.
Let	me	explain	the	ground	rules.	When	you	knock	on	a	door	at	this	time	of	day,	you’re	more	likely	to	get
the	wife	answering,	because	her	husband	will	be	at	work.	If	a	man	opens	the	door,	he’s	probably	out	of
work,	and	therefore	more	likely	to	vote	Labour.	But	whoever	answers,	all	you	have	to	say	is,	“Good
morning,	I’m	here	on	behalf	of	Giles	Barrington”	–	never	Sir	Giles	–	“the	Labour	Party	candidate	for	the
election	on	Thursday	twenty-sixth	May”	–	always	emphasize	the	date	–	“and	I	hope	you’ll	be	supporting
him.”	Now	comes	the	bit	where	you	have	to	use	your	nous.	If	they	say,	“I’ve	been	a	Labour	supporter	all
my	life,	you	can	rely	on	me,”	you	mark	their	name	with	the	red	pencil.	If	they’re	elderly,	you	ask	them	if
they’ll	need	a	car	to	take	them	to	the	polling	station	on	the	day.	If	they	say	yes,	write	“car”	next	to	their
name.	If	they	say,	“I’ve	supported	the	Labour	Party	in	the	past,	but	I’m	not	sure	this	time,”	you	mark	them
green,	undecided,	and	the	local	councillor	will	call	on	them	in	the	next	few	days.	If	they	tell	you	they
never	discuss	their	politics,	or	that	they’ll	have	to	think	about	it,	or	they	haven’t	made	up	their	mind,	or
any	variation	on	those	themes,	they’re	Tories,	so	mark	them	with	the	blue	pencil,	and	don’t	waste	any
more	time	on	them.	Have	you	understood	so	far?’
They	both	nodded.
‘These	canvassing	returns	are	vital,’	continued	Griff,	‘because	on	Election	Day	we’ll	revisit	all	the
reds,	to	make	sure	they’ve	voted.	If	they	haven’t,	we	knock	them	up	again	to	remind	them	to	go	to	the
polling	station.	If	you’re	in	any	doubt	about	someone’s	voting	intentions,	mark	them	green,	for	undecided,
because	the	last	thing	we	want	to	do	is	remind	people	to	vote,	or	even	worse,	give	them	a	lift	to	the
polling	station,	if	they’re	going	to	support	the	other	side.’A	young	volunteer	ran	up	and	handed	Griff	a	piece	of	paper.	‘What	should	I	do	about	this	one?’	he
asked.
Griff	read	the	message	and	said,	‘Tell	him	to	bugger	off.	He’s	a	well-known	Tory	who’s	just	trying	to
waste	your	time.	By	the	way,’	he	said	turning	back	to	Harry	and	Emma,	‘if	anyone	keeps	you	on	the
doorstep	for	more	than	sixty	seconds,	saying	they	need	to	be	convinced,	or	want	to	discuss	Labour	Party
policy	in	greater	detail	or	would	like	to	know	more	about	the	candidate,	they’re	also	Tories	trying	to
waste	your	time.	Bid	them	good	morning	and	move	on.	Good	luck.	Report	back	to	me	when	you’ve
completed	a	full	canvass.’
‘Good	morning,	my	name	is	Ross	Buchanan,	and	I’m	chairman	of	the	Barrington	Shipping	Group.	I	would
like	to	welcome	you	all	to	the	company’s	Annual	General	Meeting.	You	will	have	found	on	your	chairs	a
copy	of	the	company’s	annual	report.	I	would	like	to	draw	your	attention	to	a	few	highlights.	This	year	the
annual	profits	have	risen	from	£108,000	to	£122,000,	an	improvement	of	twelve	per	cent.	We	have
appointed	architects	to	design	our	first	luxury	liner,	and	expect	them	to	present	their	recommendations
within	the	next	six	months.
‘Let	me	assure	all	our	shareholders	that	we	will	not	go	ahead	with	this	project	until	we	are	convinced
it	is	a	viable	proposition.	With	that	in	mind	I	am	happy	to	announce	that	we	will	be	increasing	our
shareholders’	dividend	this	year	to	five	per	cent.	I	have	no	reason	to	believe	that	the	company’s	growth
will	not	be	sustained,	or	even	improved	on,	during	the	coming	year.’
A	round	of	applause	allowed	Buchanan	to	turn	a	page	of	his	speech	and	check	what	he	would	be	saying
next.	When	he	looked	up,	he	noticed	a	couple	of	financial	journalists	scurrying	out	of	the	room	to	make
sure	they	caught	the	first	editions	of	their	evening	papers,	aware	that	the	chairman	had	already	highlighted
the	main	points,	and	would	now	take	shareholders	slowly	through	the	details.
After	Buchanan	had	come	to	the	end	of	his	speech,	he	and	Ray	Compton	took	questions	for	forty
minutes.	When	the	meeting	finally	came	to	a	close,	the	chairman	noted	with	some	satisfaction	that	most	of
the	chattering	shareholders	were	leaving	with	smiles	on	their	faces.
As	Buchanan	left	the	stage	of	the	hotel’s	conference	room,	his	secretary	rushed	up	and	said,	‘You	have
an	urgent	call	from	Hong	Kong,	and	the	hotel	operator	is	waiting	to	put	it	through	to	your	room.’
When	Harry	and	Emma	arrived	back	at	Labour	Party	HQ,	having	completed	their	first	canvass	returns,
they	were	exhausted.
‘How	did	you	get	on?’	asked	Griff,	checking	their	clipboards	with	a	professional	eye.
‘Not	bad,’	said	Harry.	‘If	the	Woodbine	estate	is	anything	to	go	by,	we’re	home	and	dry.’
‘I	wish,’	said	Griff.	‘That	estate	should	be	rock-solid	Labour,	but	tomorrow	I’ll	let	you	loose	on
Arcadia	Avenue,	and	then	you’ll	really	find	out	what	we’re	up	against.	Before	you	go	home,	put	your	best
reply	of	the	day	up	on	the	notice	board.	The	winner	gets	a	box	of	Cadbury’s	Milk	Tray.’
Emma	grinned.	‘One	woman	said	to	me,	“My	husband	votes	Tory,	but	I	always	support	Sir	Giles.
Whatever	you	do,	please	don’t	let	him	know.”’
Griff	smiled.	‘That’s	not	uncommon,’	he	said.	‘And,	Emma,	don’t	forget,	your	most	important	job	is	to
make	sure	the	candidate	is	fed	and	gets	a	good	night’s	sleep.’
‘And	what	about	me?’	said	Harry,	as	Giles	came	bouncing	into	the	room.
‘I’m	not	interested	in	you,’	Griff	replied.	‘It’s	not	your	name	on	the	ballot	paper.’
‘How	many	meetings	have	I	got	this	evening?’	was	Giles’s	first	question.
‘Three,’	said	Griff,	without	needing	to	refer	to	any	notes.	‘Hammond	Street	YMCA,	seven	o’clock,	theCannon	Road	snooker	club	at	eight,	and	the	Working	Men’s	Club	at	nine.	Make	sure	you’re	not	late	for	any
of	them,	and	that	you’re	safely	tucked	up	in	bed	before	midnight.’
‘I	wonder	when	Griff	goes	to	bed,’	said	Emma	after	he	had	hurried	off	to	deal	with	the	latest	crisis.
‘He	doesn’t,’	whispered	Giles.	‘He’s	a	vampire.’
When	Ross	Buchanan	walked	into	his	hotel	room,	the	phone	was	ringing.	He	strode	across	and	grabbed
the	handset.
‘Your	call	from	Hong	Kong	is	on	the	line,	sir.’
‘Good	afternoon,	Mr	Buchanan,’	said	a	Scottish	voice	down	the	crackling	line.	‘It’s	Sandy	McBride.	I
thought	I’d	ring	and	let	you	know	that	it	all	happened	just	as	you	predicted,	in	fact	almost	to	the	minute.’
‘And	the	name	of	the	broker?’
‘Benny	Driscoll.’
‘No	surprises	there,’	said	Buchanan.	‘Fill	me	in	on	the	details.’
‘Within	moments	of	the	London	Stock	Exchange	opening,	a	sale	order	came	up	on	the	ticker	tape	for
two	hundred	thousand	Barrington	shares.	As	per	instructions,	we	immediately	purchased	all	two	hundred
thousand.’
‘At	what	price?’
‘Four	pounds	and	three	shillings.’
‘Have	any	more	come	on	the	market	since?’
‘Not	many,	and	frankly,	there	have	been	more	buy	orders	than	sell	following	the	excellent	results	you
announced	at	your	AGM.’
‘What’s	the	share	price	now?’	Buchanan	could	hear	the	ticker	tape	clattering	away	in	the	background.
‘Four	pounds	and	six	shillings,’	said	McBride.	‘They	seem	to	have	settled	around	there.’
‘Good,’	said	Buchanan.	‘Don’t	buy	any	more	unless	they	fall	below	four	pounds	three	shillings.’
‘Understood,	sir.’
‘That	should	keep	the	major	awake	at	night	for	the	next	three	weeks.’
‘The	major?’	queried	the	broker,	but	Buchanan	had	already	put	the	phone	down.
Arcadia	Avenue	was,	as	Griff	had	warned	them,	a	Tory	stronghold,	but	Harry	and	Emma	didn’t	return	to
the	constituency	office	empty-handed.
After	Griff	had	checked	their	clipboards,	he	gave	them	a	quizzical	look.
‘We	stuck	rigorously	to	your	rules,’	said	Harry.	‘If	we	were	in	any	doubt,	we	marked	them	as	green,
undecided.’
‘If	you’re	right,	this	seat	is	going	to	be	a	lot	closer	than	the	polls	are	forecasting,’	said	Griff,	as	an	out-
of-breath	Giles	dashed	in	brandishing	a	copy	of	the	Bristol	Evening	Post.
‘Have	you	seen	the	front	page,	Griff?’	he	said,	handing	his	agent	the	first	edition	of	the	paper.
Griff	read	the	headline,	passed	it	back	to	Giles	and	said,	‘Ignore	it.	Say	nothing,	do	nothing.	That’s	my
advice.’
Emma	glanced	over	Giles’s	shoulder	to	see	the	headline.	Fisher	challenges	Barrington	to	debate.
‘That	sounds	interesting,’	she	said.
‘It	would	be	interesting,	but	only	if	Giles	was	foolish	enough	to	accept.’
‘Why	wouldn’t	he?’	asked	Harry.	‘After	all,	he’s	a	far	better	debater	than	Fisher,	and	he	has	a	great
deal	more	political	experience.’
‘That	may	well	be	the	case,’	said	Griff,	‘but	you	must	never	give	your	opponent	a	platform.	WhileGiles	is	the	sitting	member,	he	can	dictate	the	terms.’
‘Yes,	but	have	you	read	what	the	bastard	went	on	to	say?’	said	Giles.
‘Why	should	I	waste	my	time	on	Fisher,’	said	Griff,	‘when	it’s	not	going	to	happen?’
Giles	ignored	the	comment,	and	began	reading	the	front	page	out	loud.	‘“Barrington’s	got	a	lot	of
questions	to	answer	if	he	still	hopes	to	be	the	Member	of	Parliament	for	Docklands	on	May	the	twenty-
sixth.	Knowing	him	as	I	do,	I’m	confident	the	hero	of	Tobruk	will	not	shirk	the	challenge.	I	will	be	at
Colston	Hall	next	Thursday,	May	the	nineteenth,	and	will	be	happy	to	answer	any	questions	put	to	me	by
members	of	the	public.	There	will	be	three	chairs	on	stage,	and	if	Sir	Giles	doesn’t	show	up,	I’m	sure	the
electors	will	be	able	to	draw	their	own	conclusions.”’
‘Three	chairs?’	queried	Emma.
‘Fisher	knows	the	Liberals	will	turn	up	because	they’ve	got	nothing	to	lose,’	said	Griff.	‘But	my	advice
remains	the	same.	Ignore	the	bastard.	There’ll	be	another	headline	tomorrow,	and	by	then,’	he	said,
pointing	to	the	newspaper,	‘that	will	only	be	good	for	fish	and	chips.’
Ross	Buchanan	was	sitting	at	his	desk	at	Barrington’s	checking	the	latest	report	from	Harland	and	Wolff
when	his	secretary	buzzed	through.
‘I’ve	got	Sandy	McBride	on	the	line	from	Hong	Kong.	Do	you	want	to	take	the	call?’
‘Put	him	through.’
‘Good	morning,	sir.	I	thought	you’d	like	to	know	that	Benny	Driscoll	has	been	phoning	every	few	hours
wanting	to	find	out	if	we’ve	got	any	Barrington’s	stock	for	sale.	I’ve	still	got	two	hundred	thousand	on	my
books	and,	as	the	price	continues	to	rise,	I	was	calling	to	ask	if	you	want	me	to	release	any	of	them?’
‘Not	until	the	three-week	period	is	up,	and	a	new	account	has	been	opened.	Until	then,	we’re	buyers,
not	sellers.’
When	Giles	saw	the	headline	in	the	Evening	Post	the	following	day,	he	knew	he	could	no	longer	avoid	a
direct	confrontation	with	Fisher.	Bishop	of	Bristol	to	chair	election	debate.	This	time,	Griff	read	the
front	page	more	carefully.
The	Bishop	of	Bristol,	the	Right	Reverend	Frederick	Cockin,	has	agreed	to	act	as	moderator	at	an	election	debate	to	be	held	at	Colston	Hall
next	Thursday,	May	19th	at	7.30	p.m.	Major	Alex	Fisher,	the	Conservative	candidate,	and	Mr	Reginald	Ellsworthy,	the	Liberal	candidate,	have
both	agreed	to	take	part.	Sir	Giles	Barrington,	the	Labour	candidate,	has	not	yet	responded	to	our	invitation.
‘I	still	think	you	should	ignore	it,’	said	Griff.
‘But	look	at	the	picture	on	the	front	page,’	said	Giles,	thrusting	the	paper	back	into	his	agent’s	hands.
Griff	looked	at	the	photograph,	which	showed	an	empty	chair	in	the	middle	of	the	stage	at	Colston	Hall
with	a	spotlight	beamed	on	to	it,	above	a	caption	that	read:	Will	Sir	Giles	turn	up?
‘Surely	you	see,’	said	Giles,	‘if	I	don’t	turn	up,	they’ll	have	a	field	day.’
‘And	if	you	do,	they’ll	have	a	heyday.’	Griff	paused.	‘But	it’s	your	choice,	and	if	you’re	still
determined	to	be	there,	we	have	to	turn	this	situation	to	our	advantage.’
‘How	do	we	do	that?’
‘You’ll	issue	a	press	statement	at	seven	o’clock	tomorrow	morning,	so	we	get	the	headlines	for	a
change.’
‘Saying?’
‘Saying	that	you’re	delighted	to	accept	the	challenge,	because	it	will	give	you	an	opportunity	to	expose
Tory	policies	for	what	they’re	worth,	and	at	the	same	time	let	the	people	of	Bristol	decide	who	is	the	right
man	to	represent	them	in	Parliament.’‘What	made	you	change	your	mind?’	asked	Giles.
‘I’ve	been	looking	at	the	latest	canvass	returns,	and	they	suggest	you’re	likely	to	lose	by	over	a
thousand	votes,	so	you’re	no	longer	the	favourite,	you’re	now	the	challenger.’
‘What	else	can	go	wrong?’
‘Your	wife	could	make	an	appearance,	take	a	seat	in	the	front	row	and	ask	the	first	question.	Then	your
girlfriend	turns	up	and	slaps	her	in	the	face,	in	which	case	you	needn’t	worry	about	the	Bristol	Evening
Post	because	you’ll	be	on	the	front	page	of	every	paper	in	the	country.’23
G ILES	TOOK	HIS 	seat	on	the	stage	to	loud	applause.	His	speech	to	the	packed	hall	could	hardly	have	gone
better,	and	speaking	last	had	turned	out	to	be	an	advantage.
The	three	candidates	had	all	arrived	half	an	hour	early,	and	then	waltzed	around	each	other	like
schoolboys	attending	their	first	dance	class.	The	bishop,	acting	as	moderator,	finally	brought	them	together
and	explained	how	he	intended	to	conduct	the	evening.
‘I	will	invite	each	of	you	to	make	an	opening	speech,	which	mustn’t	last	longer	than	eight	minutes.	After
seven	minutes,	I	will	ring	a	bell.’	He	gave	a	demonstration.	‘I’ll	ring	it	a	second	time	after	eight	minutes,
to	show	that	your	time	is	up.	Once	you’ve	all	delivered	your	speeches,	I	will	open	the	meeting	to
questions	from	the	floor.’
‘How	will	the	order	be	decided?’	asked	Fisher.
‘By	the	drawing	of	straws.’	The	bishop	then	held	out	three	straws	in	a	clenched	fist	and	invited	each
candidate	to	pick	one.
Fisher	drew	the	short	straw.
‘So	you	will	be	opening	the	batting,	Major	Fisher,’	said	the	bishop.	‘You	will	go	second,	Mr
Ellsworthy,	and,	Sir	Giles,	you	will	go	last.’
Giles	smiled	at	Fisher	and	said,	‘Bad	luck,	old	chap.’
‘No,	I	wanted	to	go	first,’	protested	Fisher,	causing	even	the	bishop	to	raise	an	eyebrow.
When	the	bishop	led	the	three	men	on	to	the	stage	at	7.25	p.m,	it	was	the	only	time	that	night	when
everyone	in	the	hall	applauded.	Giles	took	his	seat	and	looked	down	at	the	packed	audience.	He	estimated
that	over	a	thousand	members	of	the	public	had	turned	up	to	watch	the	jousting.
Giles	knew	that	each	of	the	three	parties	had	been	issued	with	200	tickets	for	their	supporters,	which
left	some	400	undecided	votes	to	be	played	for;	just	about	his	majority	at	the	last	election.
At	7.30	p.m.,	the	bishop	opened	proceedings.	He	introduced	the	three	candidates,	then	invited	Major
Fisher	to	deliver	his	opening	address.
Fisher	made	his	way	slowly	to	the	front	of	the	stage,	placed	his	prepared	speech	on	the	lectern	and
tapped	the	microphone.	He	delivered	his	words	nervously,	keeping	his	head	down,	clearly	fearful	of
losing	his	place.
When	the	bishop	rang	the	bell	to	indicate	that	he	had	one	minute	left,	Fisher	began	to	speed	up,	which
caused	him	to	stumble	over	his	words.	Giles	could	have	told	him	it	was	a	golden	rule	that	if	you	have
been	allocated	eight	minutes,	you	prepare	a	seven-minute	speech.	It’s	far	better	to	end	slightly	early	than
to	be	stopped	in	the	middle	of	your	peroration.	Despite	this,	when	Fisher	returned	to	his	seat	he	was
rewarded	with	prolonged	applause	from	his	supporters.
Giles	was	surprised	when	Reg	Ellsworthy	rose	to	present	the	Liberal	case.	He	didn’t	have	a	prepared
speech,	or	even	a	list	of	headings	to	remind	him	what	subjects	he	should	concentrate	on.	Instead,	hechatted	about	local	issues,	and	when	the	one-minute	bell	went,	he	stopped	in	the	middle	of	a	sentence	and
returned	to	his	seat.	Ellsworthy	had	achieved	something	Giles	would	have	thought	impossible;	he’d	made
Fisher	look	good.	Nevertheless,	a	fifth	of	those	assembled	still	cheered	their	champion.
Giles	rose	to	a	warm	reception	from	his	two	hundred	supporters,	although	large	sections	of	the	crowd
sat	on	their	hands.	Something	he’d	become	familiar	with	whenever	he	addressed	the	government	benches.
He	stood	by	the	side	of	the	lectern,	only	occasionally	glancing	at	his	notes.
He	began	by	describing	the	Conservatives’	failures	in	office,	and	outlining	what	the	Labour	Party’s
policies	would	be	should	it	form	the	next	government.	He	then	touched	on	local	issues,	and	even	managed
a	dig	about	pavement	politics	at	the	expense	of	the	Liberals,	which	brought	laughter	from	the	packed	hall.
By	the	time	he’d	come	to	the	end	of	his	speech,	at	least	half	the	audience	were	applauding.	If	the	meeting
had	ended	then,	there	would	have	been	only	one	winner.
‘The	candidates	will	now	take	questions	from	the	floor,’	announced	the	bishop,	‘and	I	hope	this	will	be
done	in	a	respectful	and	orderly	manner.’
Thirty	of	Giles’s	supporters	leapt	up	and	threw	their	hands	in	the	air,	all	of	them	with	well-prepared
questions	calculated	to	assist	their	candidate	and	undermine	the	other	two.	The	only	problem	was	that
sixty	other	equally	determined	hands	also	shot	up	at	the	same	time.
The	bishop	was	astute	enough	to	have	identified	where	the	three	different	blocks	of	supporters	were
sitting,	and	skilfully	selected	non-partisan	members	of	the	general	public	who	wanted	to	know	such	things
as	where	the	candidates	stood	on	the	introduction	of	parking	meters	in	Bristol,	which	gave	the	Liberal
candidate	a	chance	to	shine;	the	end	of	rationing,	which	they	all	approved	of;	and	the	proposed	extension
of	the	electrification	of	the	railways,	which	didn’t	advance	anyone’s	cause.
But	Giles	knew	that	eventually	an	arrow	would	be	shot	in	his	direction,	and	he	would	have	to	make
sure	it	didn’t	hit	the	target.	Finally	he	heard	the	bow	twang.
‘Could	Sir	Giles	explain	why	he	visited	Cambridge	more	times	during	the	last	parliament	than	he	did
his	own	constituency?’	asked	a	tall,	thin,	middle-aged	man,	whom	Giles	thought	he	recognized.
Giles	sat	still	for	a	moment	while	he	composed	himself.	He	was	just	about	to	rise	from	his	place	when
Fisher	shot	up,	clearly	not	surprised	by	the	question,	while	assuming	everyone	present	knew	exactly	what
the	questioner	was	alluding	to.
‘Let	me	assure	everyone	in	this	hall,’	he	said,	‘that	I	will	be	spending	far	more	time	in	Bristol	than	in
any	other	city,	whatever	the	distractions.’
Giles	looked	down	to	see	rows	of	blank	faces.	It	seemed	the	audience	had	no	idea	what	Fisher	was
talking	about.
The	Liberal	candidate	rose	next.	He	clearly	missed	the	point,	because	all	he	had	to	say	was,	‘Being	an
Oxford	man,	I	never	visit	the	other	place	unless	I	have	to.’
A	few	people	laughed.
Giles’s	two	opponents	had	supplied	him	with	the	ammunition	to	fire	back.	He	stood	and	turned	to	face
Fisher.
‘I	feel	bound	to	ask	Major	Fisher,	if	he	intends	to	spend	more	time	in	Bristol	than	in	any	other	city,	does
that	mean	that	were	he	to	win	next	Thursday,	he	won’t	be	going	up	to	London	to	take	his	seat	in	the	House
of	Commons?’
Giles	paused	to	wait	for	the	laughter	and	applause	to	die	down,	before	adding,	‘I’m	sure	I	don’t	have	to
remind	the	Conservative	candidate	of	the	words	of	Edmund	Burke.	“I	was	elected	to	represent	the	people
of	Bristol	in	Westminster,	not	the	people	of	Westminster	in	Bristol.”	That’s	one	Conservative	I’m
wholeheartedly	in	agreement	with.’	Giles	sat	down	to	sustained	applause.	Although	he	knew	he	hadn’t
really	answered	the	question,	he	felt	he’d	got	away	with	it.
‘I	think	there’s	time	for	just	one	more	question,’	said	the	bishop,	and	pointed	to	a	woman	seated	in	the
middle	of	the	hall	about	halfway	back,	who	he	felt	confident	was	neutral.‘Can	each	of	the	three	candidates	tell	us	where	their	wives	are	tonight?’
Fisher	sat	back	and	folded	his	arms,	while	Ellsworthy	looked	puzzled.	Eventually,	the	bishop	turned	to
Giles	and	said,	‘I	think	it’s	your	turn	to	go	first.’
Giles	stood	and	looked	directly	at	the	woman.
‘My	wife	and	I,’	he	began,	‘are	currently	involved	in	divorce	proceedings,	which	I	hope	will	be	settled
in	the	near	future.’
He	sat	down	to	an	uncomfortable	silence.
Ellsworthy	jumped	up	and	said,	‘I	have	to	admit	that	since	I’ve	become	the	Liberal	candidate	I	haven’t
managed	to	find	anyone	who’s	willing	to	go	out	with	me,	let	alone	marry	me.’
This	was	greeted	by	peals	of	laughter	and	warm	applause.	Giles	thought	for	a	moment	that	Ellsworthy
might	have	helped	to	lessen	the	tension.
Fisher	slowly	rose	to	his	feet.
‘My	girlfriend,’	he	said,	which	took	Giles	by	surprise,	‘who	has	joined	me	here	this	evening	and	is
sitting	in	the	front	row,	will	be	by	my	side	for	the	rest	of	the	campaign.	Jenny,	why	don’t	you	stand	up	and
take	a	bow.’
An	attractive	young	woman	rose,	turned	to	face	the	audience,	and	gave	them	a	wave.	She	was	greeted
with	a	round	of	applause.
‘Where	have	I	seen	that	woman	before?’	whispered	Emma.	But	Harry	was	concentrating	on	Fisher,
who	hadn’t	returned	to	his	seat	and	clearly	had	more	to	say.
‘I	thought	it	might	also	be	of	interest	for	you	to	know	that	this	morning	I	received	a	letter	from	Lady
Barrington.’
A	silence	descended	on	the	hall	that	none	of	the	candidates	had	achieved	all	evening.	Giles	was	sitting
on	the	edge	of	his	seat	as	Fisher	produced	a	letter	from	an	inside	jacket	pocket.	He	slowly	unfolded	it	and
began	to	read.
‘“Dear	Major	Fisher,	I	write	to	express	my	admiration	for	the	gallant	campaign	you	are	waging	on
behalf	of	the	Conservative	Party.	I	wanted	to	let	you	know	that	if	I	were	a	citizen	of	Bristol,	I	would	not
hesitate	to	vote	for	you,	as	I	believe	you	are	by	far	the	best	candidate.	I	look	forward	to	seeing	you	take
your	seat	in	the	House	of	Commons.	Yours	sincerely,	Virginia	Barrington.”’
Pandemonium	broke	out	in	the	hall,	and	Giles	realized	that	all	he’d	achieved	in	the	past	hour	had
evaporated	in	a	single	minute.	Fisher	folded	up	the	letter,	slipped	it	back	into	his	pocket	and	returned	to
his	place.	The	bishop	tried	valiantly	to	bring	the	meeting	back	to	order,	while	Fisher’s	followers
continued	to	cheer	and	cheer,	leaving	Giles’s	supporters	to	look	on	in	despair.
Griff	had	been	proved	right.	Never	give	your	opponent	a	platform.
‘Have	you	managed	to	buy	back	any	of	those	shares?’
‘Not	yet,’	said	Benny,	‘Barrington’s	are	still	riding	high	on	the	back	of	the	better	than	expected	annual
profits,	and	the	expectation	that	the	Tories	will	increase	their	majority	at	the	election.’
‘What’s	the	share	price	standing	at	now?’
‘Around	four	pounds	seven	shillings,	and	I	can’t	see	it	dropping	in	the	near	future.’
‘How	much	do	we	stand	to	lose?’	asked	Fisher.
‘We?	Not	we,’	said	Benny,	‘only	you.	Lady	Virginia	won’t	lose	anything.	She	sold	all	her	shares	at	a	far
higher	price	than	she	originally	paid	for	them.’
‘But	if	she	doesn’t	buy	them	back,	I’ll	lose	my	place	on	the	board.’
‘And	if	she	did	buy	them	back,	she’d	have	to	pay	a	hefty	premium,	and	I	imagine	she	wouldn’t	be	happy
about	that.’	Benny	waited	for	a	few	seconds	before	adding,	‘Try	to	look	on	the	bright	side,	major.	By	thistime	next	week,	you’ll	be	a	Member	of	Parliament.’
The	following	day,	the	two	local	papers	didn’t	make	good	reading	for	the	sitting	member.	Hardly	a
mention	of	Giles’s	speech,	just	a	large	photograph	of	Virginia	on	the	front	page,	looking	her	most	radiant,
with	a	copy	of	her	letter	to	Fisher	printed	underneath.
‘Don’t	turn	the	page,’	said	Griff.
Giles	immediately	turned	the	page	to	find	the	latest	poll,	predicting	that	the	Tories	would	increase	their
majority	by	twenty-three	seats.	Bristol	Docklands	was	eighth	on	the	list	of	Labour	marginals	most	likely
to	fall	to	the	Conservatives.
‘There’s	not	a	lot	a	sitting	member	can	do	when	the	national	tide	turns	against	his	party,’	said	Griff,
once	Giles	had	finished	reading	the	article.	‘I	reckon	a	damn	good	member	is	worth	an	extra	thousand
votes,	and	a	poor	opposing	candidate	can	lose	a	thousand,	but	frankly,	I’m	not	even	sure	an	extra	couple
of	thousand	will	be	enough.	But	that	won’t	stop	us	fighting	for	every	last	vote	until	nine	o’clock	on
Thursday	night.	So	make	sure	you	never	let	your	guard	down.	I	want	you	out	on	the	streets	shaking	hands
with	anything	that	moves.	Except	Alex	Fisher.	If	you	come	across	that	man,	you	have	my	permission	to
throttle	him.’
‘Have	you	managed	to	buy	back	any	Barrington’s	shares?’
‘I’m	afraid	not,	major.	They	never	once	fell	below	four	pounds	and	three	shillings.’
‘Then	I’ve	lost	my	place	on	the	board.’
‘I	think	you’ll	find	that	was	always	part	of	Barrington’s	plan,’	said	Benny.
‘What	do	you	mean?’
‘It	was	Sandy	McBride	who	picked	up	your	shares	the	moment	they	came	on	the	market,	and	he’s	been
the	main	buyer	for	the	past	twenty-one	days.	Everyone	knows	he’s	Barrington’s	broker.’
‘The	bastard.’
‘They	obviously	saw	you	coming,	major.	But	it’s	not	all	bad	news,	because	Lady	Virginia	made	a	profit
of	over	seventy	thousand	pounds	on	her	original	investment,	so	I	reckon	she	owes	you	one.’
Giles	couldn’t	have	worked	any	harder	during	the	final	week	of	the	campaign,	even	if	at	times	he	felt	like
Sisyphus	pushing	his	boulder	up	a	hill.
When	he	turned	up	at	campaign	headquarters	on	the	eve	of	the	poll,	it	was	the	first	time	he’d	seen	Griff
looking	depressed.
‘Ten	thousand	of	these	were	dropped	into	letterboxes	right	across	the	constituency	last	night,	just	in
case	anybody	might	have	missed	it.’
Giles	looked	at	a	reproduction	of	the	front	page	of	the	Bristol	Evening	Post	with	Virginia’s	photograph
above	her	letter	to	Fisher.	Underneath	it	were	the	words:	If	you	want	to	be	represented	in	Parliament	by
an	honest	and	decent	man,	vote	Fisher.
‘That	man’s	a	piece	of	shit,’	said	Griff.	‘And	he’s	been	dumped	right	on	top	of	us	from	a	great	height,’
he	added	as	one	of	the	first	volunteers	strolled	in	carrying	the	morning	papers.
Giles	slumped	back	in	his	chair	and	closed	his	eyes.	But	a	moment	later	he	could	have	sworn	he	heard
Griff	laughing.	He	was	laughing.	He	opened	his	eyes	and	Griff	passed	him	a	copy	of	the	Daily	Mail.	‘It’s
going	to	be	close,	my	boy,	but	at	least	we’re	back	in	the	race.’
Giles	didn’t	immediately	recognize	the	pretty	girl	on	the	front	page,	who	had	just	been	chosen	to	star	inThe	Benny	Hill	Show.	Jenny	had	told	the	showbiz	correspondent	about	the	job	she’d	been	doing	before
she	got	her	big	break.
‘I	was	paid	ten	pounds	a	day	to	escort	a	Tory	candidate	around	his	constituency,	and	tell	everyone	I
was	his	girlfriend.’
Giles	didn’t	think	it	was	a	very	good	photograph	of	Fisher.
Fisher	swore	out	loud	when	he	saw	the	front	page	of	the	Daily	Mail.
He	drained	his	third	cup	of	black	coffee	and	got	up	to	leave	for	campaign	headquarters,	just	as	he	heard
the	morning	post	landing	on	the	mat.	Any	letters	would	have	to	wait	until	tonight,	and	he	would	have
ignored	them	if	he	hadn’t	spotted	one	with	the	Barrington’s	company	crest	on	it.	He	bent	down,	picked	it
up	and	returned	to	the	kitchen.	He	tore	it	open	and	extracted	two	cheques,	one	made	out	to	him,	for
£1,000,	his	quarterly	payment	as	a	director	of	Barrington’s,	the	second	for	£7,341,	Lady	Virginia’s	annual
dividend,	also	made	out	to	‘Major	Alexander	Fisher’	so	that	no	one	would	know	it	was	her	7 1 ⁄2	per	cent
stockholding	that	made	it	possible	for	him	to	be	on	the	board.	No	longer.
When	he	got	back	this	evening,	he	would	make	out	a	cheque	for	the	same	amount	and	send	it	on	to	Lady
Virginia.	Wondering	if	it	was	too	early	to	phone	her,	he	checked	his	watch.	It	was	a	few	minutes	past
eight,	and	he	was	meant	to	be	standing	outside	Temple	Meads	meeting	voters	as	they	came	out	of	the
station	on	their	way	to	work.	Surely	she	would	be	awake	by	now.	He	picked	up	the	phone	and	dialled	a
Kensington	number.
It	rang	several	times	before	a	sleepy	voice	came	on	the	line.	He	nearly	put	the	phone	down.
‘Who	is	this?’	Virginia	demanded.
‘It’s	Alex	Fisher.	I	thought	I’d	call	to	let	you	know	I’ve	sold	all	your	Barrington’s	stock,	and	you’ve
made	a	profit	of	over	seventy	thousand.’	He	waited	for	a	thank	you,	but	nothing	was	forthcoming.	‘I
wondered	if	you	had	any	plans	to	buy	back	your	shares?’	he	asked.	‘After	all,	you’ve	made	a	handsome
return	since	I’ve	been	on	the	board.’
‘And	so	have	you,	major,	as	I’m	sure	I	don’t	have	to	remind	you.	But	my	plans	for	the	future	have
changed	somewhat,	and	they	no	longer	include	Barrington’s.’
‘But	if	you	don’t	buy	back	your	seven	and	a	half	per	cent,	I’ll	forfeit	my	place	on	the	board.’
‘I	won’t	be	losing	a	lot	of	sleep	over	that,	major.’
‘But	I	wondered,	given	the	circumstances	.	.	.’
‘What	circumstances?’
‘Whether	you	might	consider	a	small	bonus	would	be	appropriate,’	he	said,	looking	down	at	the	cheque
for	£7,341.
‘How	small?’
‘I	thought,	perhaps	five	thousand	pounds?’
‘I’ll	give	it	some	thought.’	The	line	went	quiet	and	Alex	even	wondered	if	he’d	been	cut	off.	Finally,
Virginia	said,	‘I’ve	given	it	some	thought,	major,	and	decided	against	it.’
‘Then	perhaps	a	loan	.	.	.’	he	said,	trying	not	to	sound	desperate.
‘Didn’t	your	nanny	tell	you,	neither	a	borrower	nor	a	lender	be?	No,	of	course	she	didn’t,	because	you
didn’t	have	a	nanny.’
Virginia	turned	around	and	rapped	loudly	three	times	on	the	wooden	bedstead.
‘Ah,	the	maid	has	just	arrived	with	my	breakfast,	major,	so	I	have	to	say	goodbye.	And	when	I	say
goodbye,	I	mean	goodbye.’
Fisher	heard	the	phone	click.	He	stared	at	the	cheque	for	£7,341,	made	out	to	him,	and	remembered
Benny’s	words:	She	owes	you	one.24
G ILES	WAS	UP 	at	five	on	the	morning	of	the	election,	and	not	just	because	he	couldn’t	sleep.
As	he	went	downstairs	Denby	opened	the	door	to	the	breakfast	room	and	said,	‘Good	morning,	Sir
Giles,’	as	if	there	was	a	general	election	every	day.
Giles	entered	the	dining	room,	picked	up	a	bowl	from	the	sideboard	and	filled	it	with	cornflakes	and
fruit.	He	was	going	over	his	schedule	for	the	day	when	the	door	opened	and	in	walked	Sebastian,	dressed
in	a	smart	blue	blazer	and	grey	flannels.
‘Seb.	When	did	you	get	back?’
‘Late	last	night,	Uncle	Giles.	Most	schools	have	been	given	the	day	off	because	they’re	being	used	as
polling	stations,	so	I	asked	if	I	could	come	home	and	help	you.’
‘What	would	you	like	to	do?’	asked	Giles	as	Denby	placed	a	plate	of	eggs	and	bacon	in	front	of	him.
‘Anything	I	can	to	help	you	win.’
‘If	that’s	what	you	want	to	do,	listen	carefully.	On	Election	Day,	the	party	has	eight	committee	rooms
spread	across	the	constituency.	They’re	all	manned	by	volunteers,	some	of	whom	have	experience	of	a
dozen	elections.	They’ll	have	up-to-date	canvass	returns	for	the	district	they’re	in	charge	of.	Every	street,
road,	avenue	and	cul-de-sac	will	be	marked	to	show	where	our	supporters	live.	We’ll	also	have	a
volunteer	sitting	outside	each	polling	station,	checking	off	the	names	of	people	who’ve	cast	their	vote.
Our	biggest	problem	is	getting	that	list	of	names	back	to	the	committee	room,	so	we	can	keep	track	of	our
supporters	who	haven’t	voted	yet,	and	make	sure	we	get	them	to	the	polls	before	they	close	at	nine
o’clock	tonight.	A	general	rule,’	continued	Giles,	‘is	that	more	of	our	people	vote	between	eight	and	ten
a.m.,	soon	after	the	polls	open,	while	at	ten	o’clock	the	Tories	will	begin	to	turn	out,	and	keep	going	until
four	in	the	afternoon.	But	after	that,	when	voters	are	coming	home	from	work,	that’s	our	most	vital	time,
because	if	they	don’t	vote	on	the	way	home,	it’s	almost	impossible	to	get	them	back	out,’	he	added	as
Emma	and	Harry	came	into	the	room.
‘What’s	Griff	got	you	two	doing	today?’	asked	Giles.
‘I’m	manning	a	committee	room,’	said	Emma.
‘I’m	knocking	up	red	voters,’	said	Harry.	‘And	if	they	need	a	lift,	I’ll	be	driving	them	to	the	polling
station.’
‘Don’t	forget,’	said	Giles,	‘for	some	of	them,	the	last	time	they	had	a	ride	in	a	car	was	probably	at	the
last	election,	unless	there’s	been	a	wedding	or	a	funeral	in	their	family	in	the	past	four	years.	Which
committee	room	has	Griff	allocated	you	to?’	he	asked	Emma.
‘I’m	to	assist	Miss	Parish	on	the	Woodbine	estate.’
‘You	should	be	flattered,’	said	Giles.	‘Miss	Parish	is	a	legend.	Grown	men	fear	for	their	lives	if	they
forget	to	vote.	By	the	way,	Seb	has	volunteered	to	be	one	of	your	runners.	I’ve	already	explained	what	his
duties	will	be.’Emma	smiled	at	her	son.
‘I’m	off,’	said	Giles,	leaping	up	from	his	place,	but	not	before	placing	two	rashers	of	bacon	between
two	slices	of	brown	bread.
Emma	accepted	that	only	Elizabeth	could	have	told	him	off,	and	probably	not	even	her	on	Election	Day.
‘I’ll	be	visiting	every	committee	room	at	some	point	during	the	day,’	he	said	on	the	move,	‘so	I’ll	catch
up	with	you	later.’
Denby	was	waiting	for	him	outside	the	front	door.
‘I’m	sorry	to	trouble	you,	sir,	but	I	hope	it	won’t	be	inconvenient	if	the	staff	at	the	hall	were	to	take	half
an	hour	off	between	four	and	four	thirty	this	afternoon.’
‘Any	particular	reason?’
‘To	vote,	sir.’
Giles	looked	embarrassed.	‘How	many	votes?’	he	whispered.
‘Six	for	you,	sir,	and	one	undecided.’	Giles	raised	an	eyebrow.	‘The	new	gardener,	sir,	has	ideas	above
his	station.	Thinks	he’s	a	Tory.’
‘Then	let’s	hope	I	don’t	lose	by	one	vote,’	said	Giles	as	he	ran	out	of	the	front	door.
Jessica	was	standing	in	the	driveway	holding	the	car	door	open	for	him,	as	she	did	every	morning.	‘Can
I	come	with	you,	Uncle	Giles?’	she	asked.
‘Not	this	time.	But	I	promise	you’ll	be	by	my	side	at	the	next	election.	I’ll	tell	everyone	you’re	my
girlfriend,	and	then	I’ll	win	by	a	landslide.’
‘Isn’t	there	anything	I	can	do	to	help?’
‘No	.	.	.	yes.	Do	you	know	the	new	gardener?’
‘Albert?	Yes,	he’s	very	nice.’
‘He’s	thinking	of	voting	Conservative.	See	if	you	can	convert	him	by	four	o’clock	this	afternoon.’
‘I	will,	I	will,’	said	Jessica	as	Giles	climbed	in	behind	the	wheel.
Giles	parked	outside	the	entrance	to	the	docks	just	before	7	a.m.	He	shook	hands	with	every	man	before
they	clocked	on	for	the	morning	shift,	and	with	everyone	coming	off	the	night	shift.	He	was	surprised	how
many	of	them	wanted	to	talk	to	him.
‘I	won’t	let	you	down	this	time,	guv.’
‘You	can	count	on	me.’
‘I’m	on	my	way	to	the	polls	right	now.’
When	Dave	Coleman,	the	night	foreman,	clocked	off,	Giles	took	him	to	one	side	and	asked	if	he	knew
the	reason	for	the	men’s	fervour.
‘A	lot	of	them	think	it’s	high	time	you	sorted	out	your	marital	problems,’	said	Coleman,	who	was
known	for	his	bluntness,	‘but	they	detest	Major	stuck-up	Fisher	so	much,	they	certainly	wouldn’t	want	him
representing	our	grievances	in	Parliament.	At	a	personal	level,’	he	added,	‘I	would	have	respected	Fisher
more	if	he’d	had	the	courage	to	show	his	face	on	the	docks.	There	are	a	handful	of	Tories	in	the	union,	but
he	hasn’t	even	bothered	to	find	out	who	they	are.’
Giles	was	heartened	by	the	response	he	received	when	he	visited	the	W.D.	&	H.O.	Wills	cigarette
factory,	and	again	when	he	went	on	to	meet	the	workers	at	the	Bristol	Aeroplane	Company.	But	he	knew
that	on	the	day	of	a	general	election,	every	candidate	is	convinced	he	is	going	to	win,	even	the	Liberals.
Giles	turned	up	at	the	first	committee	room	a	few	minutes	after	ten.	The	local	chairman	told	him	that	22
per	cent	of	their	known	supporters	had	already	voted,	which	was	in	line	with	the	1951	election,	when
Giles	had	won	by	414	votes.
‘What	about	the	Tories?’	Giles	asked.‘Sixteen	per	cent.’
‘How	does	that	compare	with	’fifty-one?’
‘They’re	up	one	per	cent,’	admitted	the	committee	room	chairman.
By	the	time	Giles	had	reached	the	eighth	committee	room,	it	was	just	after	4	p.m.	Miss	Parish	was
standing	by	the	door	waiting	for	him,	a	plate	of	cheese	and	tomato	sandwiches	in	one	hand,	a	large	glass
of	milk	in	the	other.	Miss	Parish	was	one	of	the	few	people	on	the	Woodbine	estate	who	owned	a	fridge.
‘How’s	it	going?’	Giles	asked.
‘Thank	heavens	it	rained	between	ten	and	four,	but	now	the	sun’s	come	out.	I’m	beginning	to	believe
that	God	might	be	a	socialist.	But	we’ve	still	got	a	lot	of	work	to	do	if	we’re	going	to	make	up	the	lost
ground	in	the	last	five	hours.’
‘You’ve	never	called	an	election	wrong,	Iris.	What	are	you	predicting?’
‘The	truth?’
‘The	truth.’
‘Too	close	to	call.’
‘Then	let’s	get	back	to	work.’	Giles	began	to	move	around	the	room,	thanking	every	one	of	the	helpers.
‘Your	family	have	come	up	trumps,’	said	Miss	Parish,	‘remembering	they’re	Tories.’
‘Emma	can	turn	her	hand	to	anything.’
‘She’s	good,’	said	Miss	Parish,	as	Giles	watched	his	sister	transferring	the	figures	just	in	from	a
polling	station	to	the	canvass	sheet.	‘But	it’s	young	Sebastian	who’s	the	superstar.	If	we	had	ten	of	him,
we’d	never	lose.’
Giles	smiled.	‘So	where	is	the	young	man	at	the	moment?’
‘Either	on	his	way	to	a	polling	station,	or	on	his	way	back.	He	doesn’t	believe	in	standing	still.’
Sebastian	was	actually	standing	still,	waiting	for	a	teller	to	hand	over	the	latest	list	of	names	so	he	could
get	them	back	to	Miss	Parish,	who	continued	to	fuel	him	on	Tizer	and	Fry’s	milk	chocolate,	despite	the
occasional	disapproving	look	from	his	mother.
‘The	trouble	is,’	the	teller	was	saying	to	a	friend	who’d	just	voted,	‘the	Millers	over	there	at	number
twenty-one,	all	six	of	them,	can’t	even	be	bothered	to	cross	the	road,	despite	the	fact	that	they	never	stop
complaining	about	this	Tory	government.	So	if	we	lose	by	half	a	dozen	votes,	we’ll	know	who	to	blame.’
‘Why	don’t	you	get	Miss	Parish	on	to	them?’	said	the	friend.
‘She’s	got	enough	on	her	plate	without	having	to	come	down	here.	I’d	do	it	myself,	but	I	can’t	leave	my
post.’
Sebastian	turned	and	found	himself	walking	across	the	road.	He	came	to	a	halt	outside	number	21,	but	it
was	some	time	before	he	plucked	up	enough	courage	to	knock.	He	nearly	ran	away	when	he	saw	the	size
of	the	man	who	opened	the	door.
‘What	do	you	want,	nipper?’	the	man	bellowed.
‘I	represent	Major	Fisher,	the	Conservative	candidate,’	said	Sebastian,	in	his	best	public	school	accent,
‘and	he	was	rather	hoping	that	you’d	be	able	to	support	him	today,	as	the	polls	are	showing	it’s	likely	to
be	a	close-run	thing.’
‘Bugger	off	before	I	give	you	a	clip	round	the	ear,’	said	Mr	Miller,	and	slammed	the	door	in	his	face.
Sebastian	ran	back	across	the	road	and,	as	he	collected	the	latest	figures	from	the	teller,	he	saw	the
door	of	number	21	open,	and	Mr	Miller	reappeared,	leading	five	members	of	his	family	across	the	road.
Sebastian	added	the	Millers	to	his	canvass	return	before	running	back	to	the	committee	room.Giles	was	back	at	the	docks	by	six	o’clock,	to	meet	the	day	shift	coming	off	and	the	night	shift	clocking
on.
‘Have	you	been	standing	there	all	day,	guv?’	quipped	one	of	them.
‘Feels	like	it,’	said	Giles,	as	he	shook	another	hand.
One	or	two	turned	back	when	they	saw	him	standing	there	and	quickly	headed	for	the	nearby	polling
station,	while	those	coming	out	all	seemed	to	be	going	in	one	direction,	and	it	wasn’t	to	the	nearest	pub.
At	6.30	p.m.,	after	all	the	dockers	had	either	clocked	on	or	gone	home,	Giles	did	what	he’d	done	for	the
past	two	elections	and	jumped	aboard	the	first	double-decker	bus	heading	back	into	the	city.
Once	on	board,	he	climbed	on	to	the	top	deck	and	shook	hands	with	several	surprised	passengers.
When	he’d	covered	the	lower	deck,	he	jumped	off	at	the	next	stop	and	got	on	another	bus	going	in	the
opposite	direction.	He	went	on	jumping	on	and	off	buses	for	the	next	two	and	a	half	hours,	continuing	to
shake	hands	until	one	minute	past	nine.
Giles	got	off	the	last	bus	and	sat	alone	at	the	stop.	There	was	nothing	more	he	could	do	to	win	this
election.
Giles	heard	a	single	chime	echo	in	the	distance	and	glanced	at	his	watch:	9.30	p.m.;	time	to	make	a	move.
He	decided	he	couldn’t	face	another	bus,	and	began	to	walk	slowly	towards	the	city	centre,	hoping	the
evening	air	might	clear	his	head	before	the	count.
By	now	the	local	constabulary	would	have	begun	to	collect	the	ballot	boxes	from	all	over	the
constituency	before	delivering	them	to	City	Hall;	a	process	that	would	take	more	than	an	hour	to	complete.
Once	they	had	all	been	delivered,	checked	and	double	checked,	Mr	Wainwright,	the	town	clerk,	would
give	the	order	for	the	seals	to	be	broken	so	the	count	could	begin.	If	the	result	was	announced	before	1
o’clock	that	morning,	it	would	be	a	miracle.
Sam	Wainwright	was	not	a	man	destined	to	break	speed	records	on	land	or	sea.	‘Slowly,	but	surely’
would	be	the	words	etched	on	his	gravestone.	Giles	had	dealt	with	the	town	clerk	on	local	matters	for	the
past	decade	and	still	didn’t	know	which	party	he	supported.	He	suspected	he	just	didn’t	vote.	What	Giles
did	know	was	that	this	would	be	Wainwright’s	last	election,	as	he	would	be	retiring	at	the	end	of	the	year.
In	Giles’s	opinion,	the	city	would	be	very	lucky	to	find	a	worthy	successor.	Someone	might	succeed
Wainwright,	but	no	man	could	replace	him,	as	Thomas	Jefferson	had	said	when	he	followed	Benjamin
Franklin	into	the	post	of	American	ambassador	to	France.
One	or	two	passers-by	waved	as	Giles	continued	on	his	way	to	City	Hall,	while	others	simply	ignored
him.	He	began	to	think	about	his	life,	and	what	he	might	do	if	he	were	no	longer	the	MP	for	Bristol
Docklands.	He	would	be	thirty-five	in	a	couple	of	weeks.	True,	no	great	age,	but	since	returning	to	Bristol
just	after	the	war	ended	he’d	only	ever	done	one	job,	and	frankly	he	wasn’t	qualified	to	do	much	else;	the
perennial	problem	for	any	Member	of	Parliament	who	doesn’t	have	a	safe	seat.
His	thoughts	turned	to	Virginia,	who	could	have	made	his	life	so	much	easier	simply	by	signing	a	piece
of	paper	some	six	months	ago.	He	now	realized	that	had	never	been	part	of	her	plan.	She	had	always
intended	to	wait	until	after	the	election	in	order	to	cause	him	the	maximum	possible	embarrassment.	He
was	now	certain	she	had	been	responsible	for	putting	Fisher	on	the	board	of	Barrington’s,	and	he	even
wondered	if	it	was	she	who’d	sown	the	seed	in	Fisher’s	mind	that	he	could	defeat	Giles	and	replace	him
as	Member	of	Parliament.
She	was	probably	sitting	at	home	in	London	right	now	waiting	for	the	election	results	to	come	in,
although	in	truth	she	was	only	interested	in	one	seat.	Was	she	preparing	for	another	raid	on	the	company’s
shares	as	part	of	her	long-term	plan	to	bring	the	Barrington	family	to	its	knees?	Giles	was	confident	that	in
Ross	Buchanan	and	Emma,	she	had	met	her	match.It	was	Grace	who	had	finally	brought	him	to	his	senses	about	Virginia,	and	having	done	so,	she	never
mentioned	the	subject	again.	He	also	had	her	to	thank	for	introducing	him	to	Gwyneth.	She	had	been	keen
to	come	to	Bristol	and	help	him	retain	his	seat,	but	she	had	been	the	first	to	acknowledge	that	if	she’d	been
seen	canvassing	with	him	on	the	high	street,	the	only	person	who	would	have	gained	from	it	would	be
Fisher.
Giles	had	rung	Gwyneth	in	Cambridge	every	morning	before	going	into	the	office,	but	not	when	he
returned	at	night,	despite	her	telling	him	to	wake	her,	because	he	rarely	arrived	home	before	midnight.	If
he	lost	tonight,	he	would	drive	up	to	Cambridge	in	the	morning	and	unburden	his	troubles	on	her.	If	he
won,	he	would	join	her	in	the	afternoon	and	share	his	triumph	with	her.	Whatever	the	outcome,	he	wasn’t
going	to	lose	her.
‘Good	luck,	Sir	Giles,’	said	a	passing	voice	that	brought	him	back	to	the	real	world.	‘I’m	sure	you’ll
make	it.’	Giles	returned	his	confident	smile,	but	he	wasn’t	sure.
He	could	now	see	the	massive	bulk	of	City	Hall	looming	in	front	of	him.	The	two	golden	unicorns
perched	high	on	the	roof	at	each	end	of	the	building	grew	larger	with	every	step	he	took.
The	volunteers	who’d	been	chosen	to	assist	with	the	count	would	already	be	in	place.	This	was
considered	a	great	responsibility,	and	was	usually	undertaken	by	local	councillors	or	senior	party
officials.	Miss	Parish	would	be	in	charge	of	the	six	Labour	scrutineers,	as	she	had	been	for	the	past	four
elections,	and	he	knew	she	had	invited	Harry	and	Emma	to	join	her	select	team.
‘I	would	have	asked	Sebastian	as	well,’	she	had	told	Giles,	‘but	he’s	not	old	enough.’
‘He’ll	be	disappointed,’	Giles	had	replied.
‘Yes,	he	was.	But	I	got	him	a	pass,	so	he	can	watch	everything	that’s	going	on	from	the	balcony.’
‘Thank	you.’
‘Don’t	thank	me,’	said	Miss	Parish.	‘I	only	wish	I’d	had	him	for	the	whole	campaign.’
Giles	took	a	deep	breath	as	he	climbed	the	steps	of	City	Hall.	Whatever	the	outcome,	he	mustn’t	forget
to	thank	the	many	people	who	had	supported	him,	whose	only	reward	would	be	victory.	He	recalled	Old
Jack’s	words	after	he’d	scored	a	century	at	Lord’s:	anyone	can	be	a	good	winner.	The	sign	of	a	great	man
is	how	you	handle	defeat.25
G RIFF 	H ASKINS	WAS 	striding	back	and	forth	in	the	lobby	of	City	Hall	when	he	spotted	Giles	walking
towards	him.	The	two	shook	hands	as	if	they	hadn’t	seen	each	other	for	weeks.
‘If	I	win,’	said	Giles,	‘you—’
‘Don’t	get	sentimental	on	me,’	said	Griff.	‘We’ve	still	got	a	job	to	do.’
They	made	their	way	through	the	swing	doors	into	the	main	auditorium	to	find	that	the	thousand	seats
that	usually	filled	the	room	had	been	replaced	by	two	dozen	trestle	tables	in	rows,	with	wooden	chairs	on
either	side	of	them.
Sam	Wainwright,	hands	on	hips,	feet	apart,	stood	in	the	middle	of	the	stage.	He	blew	a	whistle	to
announce	that	the	game	had	begun.	Scissors	appeared,	seals	were	cut,	ballot	boxes	were	thrown	open	and
turned	upside	down	to	allow	thousands	of	little	slips	of	paper,	each	one	bearing	three	names,	to	spill	out
on	to	the	tables	in	front	of	the	counters.
Their	first	job	was	to	sort	the	ballot	papers	into	three	piles	before	the	counting	could	begin.	One	side	of
the	table	concentrated	on	Fisher,	while	the	other	worked	on	Barrington.	The	search	for	Ellsworthy’s	votes
took	a	little	longer.
Giles	and	Griff	paced	nervously	around	the	room,	trying	to	work	out	from	the	piles	of	ballot	papers	if
one	side	or	the	other	had	an	obvious	lead.	After	one	complete	circuit,	it	was	clear	to	both	of	them	that
neither	had.	Giles	appeared	to	be	comfortably	ahead	if	you	looked	at	the	pile	of	slips	from	the	boxes
collected	from	the	Woodbine	estate,	but	Fisher	was	a	clear	winner	if	you	checked	the	ballot	boxes	from
the	Arcadia	Avenue	wards.	Another	circuit	of	the	hall,	and	they	were	none	the	wiser.	The	only	thing	they
could	predict	with	any	certainty	was	that	the	Liberals	would	end	up	in	third	place.
Giles	looked	up	when	he	heard	a	burst	of	applause	coming	from	the	other	side	of	the	hall.	Fisher	had
just	entered	the	room	with	his	agent	and	a	few	key	supporters.	Giles	recognized	some	of	them	from	the
evening	of	the	debate.	He	couldn’t	help	noticing	that	Fisher	had	changed	into	a	fresh	shirt	and	was
wearing	a	smart	double-breasted	suit,	already	looking	every	inch	a	Member	of	Parliament.	After	chatting
to	one	or	two	of	the	counters,	he	also	began	to	move	around	the	room,	making	quite	sure	he	didn’t	bump
into	Barrington.
Giles	and	Griff,	along	with	Miss	Parish,	Harry	and	Emma,	continued	to	walk	slowly	up	and	down	the
aisles,	watching	carefully	as	piles	of	ballot	papers	were	stacked	in	tens,	and	then,	once	they	totalled	a
hundred,	were	bound	by	thick	red,	blue	or	yellow	bands,	so	they	could	be	identified	quickly.	Finally	they
were	lined	up	in	five-hundreds,	like	soldiers	on	parade.
The	scrutineers	took	a	row	each,	checking	that	the	tens	were	not	nines	or	elevens,	and,	even	more
important,	that	the	hundreds	weren’t	hundred-and-tens	or	nineties.	If	they	thought	a	mistake	had	been
made,	they	could	ask	for	a	pile	to	be	re-counted	in	the	presence	of	Mr	Wainwright	or	one	of	his	deputies.
Not	something	to	be	done	lightly,	Miss	Parish	warned	her	team.After	two	hours	of	counting,	Griff	shrugged	his	shoulders	in	answer	to	Giles’s	whispered	question	as	to
how	he	thought	things	were	going.	By	this	time	in	1951,	he’d	been	able	to	tell	Giles	he’d	won,	even	if	it
was	only	by	a	few	hundred	votes.	Not	tonight.
Once	the	counters	had	their	neat,	well-ordered	piles	of	five-hundreds	in	place,	they	raised	a	hand	to	let
the	town	clerk	know	that	they’d	completed	the	task	and	were	ready	to	confirm	their	results.	Finally,	when
the	last	hand	was	raised,	Mr	Wainwright	once	again	blew	a	sharp	blast	on	his	whistle	and	said,	‘Now
double	check	every	pile	one	more	time.’	He	then	added,	‘Would	the	candidates	and	their	agents	please
join	me	on	stage.’
Giles	and	Griff	were	the	first	to	climb	the	steps,	with	Fisher	and	Ellsworthy	only	a	stride	behind.	On	a
table	in	the	centre	of	the	stage,	where	everyone	could	observe	exactly	what	was	taking	place,	was	a	small
pile	of	ballot	papers.	No	more	than	a	dozen	of	them,	Giles	estimated.
‘Gentlemen,’	announced	the	town	clerk,	‘these	are	the	spoilt	ballot	papers.	Electoral	law	decrees	that	I,
and	I	alone,	must	decide	if	any	of	them	should	be	included	in	the	final	count.	However,	you	have	the	right
to	disagree	with	any	of	my	judgements.’
Wainwright	stood	over	the	pile	of	votes,	adjusted	his	glasses	and	studied	the	top	slip.	It	had	a	cross	in
Fisher’s	box,	but	also	scribbled	across	it	were	the	words	‘God	Save	the	Queen’.
‘That’s	obviously	a	vote	for	me,’	said	Fisher,	before	Wainwright	could	give	his	opinion.
The	town	clerk	looked	at	Giles,	and	then	at	Ellsworthy,	and	they	both	nodded,	so	the	ballot	paper	was
placed	to	his	right.	On	the	next	slip	a	tick,	not	a	cross,	had	been	placed	in	Fisher’s	box.
‘They	clearly	intended	to	vote	for	me,’	said	Fisher	firmly.	Once	again,	Giles	and	Ellsworthy	nodded.
The	town	clerk	placed	the	vote	on	Fisher’s	pile,	which	caused	the	Conservative	candidate	to	smile,
until	he	saw	that	the	next	three	ballot	papers	had	ticks	in	Barrington’s	box.
On	the	next	paper,	the	names	of	all	three	candidates	had	been	crossed	out	and	replaced	by	Vote	for
Desperate	Dan.	They	all	agreed	it	was	spoilt.	The	next	had	a	tick	by	Ellsworthy’s	name,	and	it	was
accepted	as	a	vote	for	the	Liberal	candidate.	The	eighth	declared	Abolish	hanging,	and	joined	the	spoilt
pile	without	comment.	The	ninth	had	a	tick	in	Barrington’s	box,	and	Fisher	had	no	choice	but	to	allow	it,
giving	Giles	a	4–2	lead	with	only	two	papers	left	to	consider.	The	next	had	a	tick	in	Barrington’s	box,
with	the	word	NEVER	written	next	to	Fisher’s	name.
‘That	must	be	a	spoilt	ballot,’	said	Fisher.
‘In	which	case,’	said	the	town	clerk,	‘I	will	have	to	treat	“God	Save	the	Queen”	in	the	same	way.’
‘That’s	logical,’	said	Ellsworthy.	‘Better	take	them	both	out.’
‘I	agree	with	Major	Fisher,’	said	Giles,	realizing	it	would	increase	his	lead	from	4–2	to	4–1.	Fisher
looked	as	if	he	wanted	to	protest,	but	said	nothing.
They	all	looked	at	the	last	ballot	paper.	Wainwright	smiled.
‘Not	in	my	lifetime,	I	suspect,’	he	said,	placing	a	paper	with	the	words	Independence	for	Scotland
scrawled	across	it	on	the	spoilt	pile.
Wainwright	then	checked	each	ballot	paper	again,	before	saying,	‘That’s	four	votes	for	Barrington,	one
for	Fisher	and	one	for	Ellsworthy.’	He	wrote	down	the	numbers	in	his	note	book	and	said,	‘Thank	you,
gentlemen.’
‘Let’s	hope	that’s	not	the	only	vote	you	win	tonight,’	Griff	mumbled	to	Giles	as	they	left	the	stage	and
joined	Miss	Parish	and	her	scrutineers.
The	town	clerk	returned	to	the	front	of	the	stage	and	once	again	blew	his	whistle.	His	team	of	deputies
immediately	began	walking	up	and	down	the	aisles	writing	down	the	final	numbers	from	each	counter,
before	taking	them	on	to	the	stage	and	handing	them	to	the	town	clerk.
Mr	Wainwright	studied	each	figure	carefully	before	entering	the	numbers	into	a	large	adding	machine,
his	only	concession	to	the	modern	world.	Once	he’d	pressed	the	add	button	for	the	last	time,	he	wrote
down	the	final	figures	against	the	three	names,	considered	them	for	a	moment,	then	invited	the	candidatesto	join	him	on	the	stage	once	again.	He	then	told	them	the	result	and	agreed	to	Giles’s	request.
Miss	Parish	frowned	when	she	saw	Fisher	giving	his	supporters	a	thumbs-up	sign,	and	realized	they
had	lost.	She	glanced	up	towards	the	gallery	to	see	Sebastian	waving	energetically	at	her.	She	waved
back,	but	looked	down	again	when	Mr	Wainwright	tapped	the	microphone,	creating	a	hush	of	expectation
in	the	hall.
‘I,	the	returning	officer	for	the	constituency	of	Bristol	Docklands,	declare	the	total	number	of	votes	cast
for	each	candidate	to	be	as	follows:
Sir	Giles	Barrington
Mr	Reginald	Ellsworthy
Major	Alexander	Fisher
18,714		
3,472		
18,908.’
A	huge	cheer	and	prolonged	clapping	rose	from	the	Fisher	camp.	Wainwright	waited	for	order	to	be
restored	before	he	added,	‘The	sitting	member	has	asked	for	a	re-count,	and	I	have	granted	his	request.
Will	every	teller	please	re-check	their	piles	most	carefully,	and	make	sure	no	mistakes	have	been	made.’
The	counters	began	to	check,	and	re-check,	every	ten,	then	every	hundred,	and	finally	every	five
hundred,	before	raising	their	hands	to	signal	that	they	had	completed	the	task	a	second	time.
Giles	looked	up	to	the	heavens	in	silent	prayer,	only	to	see	Sebastian	waving	frantically,	but	then
something	Griff	said	distracted	him.
‘You	ought	to	be	thinking	about	your	speech,’	said	Griff.	‘You	must	thank	the	town	clerk,	his	workers,
your	workers,	and	above	all,	if	Fisher	wins,	you	must	appear	magnanimous.	After	all,	there’ll	always	be
another	election.’
Giles	wasn’t	so	sure	there	would	be	another	election	for	him.	He	was	about	to	say	so,	when	Miss
Parish	hurried	across	to	join	them.
‘I’m	sorry	to	interrupt,’	she	said,	‘but	Sebastian	seems	to	be	trying	to	catch	your	attention.’
Giles	and	Griff	looked	up	at	the	balcony	where	Sebastian	was	leaning	well	over	the	rail,	almost
begging	one	of	them	to	join	him.
‘Why	don’t	you	go	up	and	see	what	his	problem	is,’	said	Griff,	‘while	Giles	and	I	prepare	for	the	new
order.’
Miss	Parish	climbed	the	stairs	to	the	balcony	to	be	met	by	Sebastian	waiting	on	the	top	step.	He
grabbed	her	by	the	arm,	pulled	her	towards	the	railing	and	pointed	down	into	the	body	of	the	hall.	‘You
see	that	man	sitting	on	the	end	of	the	third	row	wearing	a	green	shirt?’
Miss	Parish	looked	in	the	direction	he	was	indicating.	‘Yes.	What	about	him?’
‘He’s	been	cheating.’
‘What	makes	you	say	that?’	asked	Miss	Parish,	trying	to	sound	calm.
‘He	reported	five	hundred	votes	for	Fisher	to	one	of	the	deputy	town	clerks.’
‘Yes,	that’s	right,’	said	Miss	Parish.	‘He’s	got	five	piles	of	one	hundred	in	front	of	him.’
‘I	know,’	said	Sebastian,	‘but	one	of	those	piles	has	a	Fisher	ballot	paper	on	top,	and	the	ninety-nine
underneath	are	for	Uncle	Giles.’
‘Are	you	certain	of	that?’	asked	Miss	Parish.	‘Because	if	Griff	asks	Mr	Wainwright	to	check	those
votes	personally,	and	you	turn	out	to	be	wrong	.	.	.’
‘I’m	certain,’	said	Sebastian	defiantly.
Miss	Parish	still	didn’t	look	sure,	but	she	got	as	near	to	running	as	she	had	for	some	years.	Once	she
arrived	back	on	the	floor,	she	hurried	up	to	Giles,	who	was	trying	to	look	confident	as	he	chatted	to	Emma
and	Griff.	She	told	them	what	Sebastian	was	claiming,	only	to	be	greeted	by	expressions	of	disbelief.	All
four	of	them	looked	up	to	the	balcony,	to	see	Sebastian	pointing	frantically	at	the	man	in	the	green	shirt.‘I	find	what	Sebastian	is	suggesting	quite	easy	to	believe,’	said	Emma.
‘Why?’	asked	Griff.	‘Did	you	actually	see	that	man	put	a	Fisher	ballot	paper	on	top	of	one	of	our
piles?’
‘No,	but	I	did	see	him	at	the	debate	last	Thursday.	He	was	the	one	who	asked	why	Giles	had	visited
Cambridge	more	times	than	Bristol	during	the	last	parliament.’
Giles	looked	at	the	man	closely,	as	more	and	more	hands	began	to	shoot	up	around	the	room	to	indicate
that	the	recount	was	nearly	complete.
‘I	think	you’re	right,’	he	said.
Griff	left	them	without	another	word	and	quickly	made	his	way	back	up	on	to	the	stage,	where	he	asked
the	town	clerk	if	he	could	have	a	private	word.
Once	he	had	heard	what	the	agent	was	claiming,	Mr	Wainwright	looked	up	at	Sebastian,	and	then
transferred	his	gaze	to	the	counter	who	was	seated	at	the	end	of	the	third	row	of	tables.
‘That’s	a	very	serious	allegation	to	be	making	on	the	word	of	a	child,’	he	said,	his	eyes	returning	to
Sebastian.
‘He’s	not	a	child,’	said	Griff.	‘He’s	a	young	man.	And	in	any	case,	this	is	an	official	request	for	you	to
make	an	inspection.’
‘Then	on	your	head	be	it,’	said	Wainwright,	after	looking	once	again	at	the	counter	concerned.	Without
another	word,	he	summoned	two	of	his	deputies	and	announced	without	explanation,	‘Follow	me.’
The	three	men	walked	down	the	steps	to	the	floor	and	headed	straight	for	the	table	at	the	end	of	the	third
row,	with	Giles	and	Griff	only	a	pace	behind.	The	town	clerk	looked	down	at	the	man	in	the	green	shirt,
and	said,	‘I	wonder	if	you	would	allow	me	to	take	your	place,	sir,	as	Sir	Giles’s	agent	has	asked	me	to
check	your	numbers	personally.’
The	man	got	up	slowly,	and	stood	to	one	side	as	Wainwright	sat	down	in	his	chair	and	studied	the	five
piles	of	Fisher	votes	on	the	table	in	front	of	him.
He	picked	up	the	first	stack,	removed	the	blue	elastic	band	and	studied	the	top	ballot	paper.	He	needed
only	a	cursory	inspection	to	confirm	that	all	one	hundred	votes	had	been	correctly	allocated	to	Fisher.	The
second	pile	yielded	the	same	result,	as	did	the	third,	by	which	time	only	Sebastian,	looking	down	from	the
balcony,	still	appeared	confident.
When	Wainwright	removed	the	top	ballot	paper	from	the	fourth	stack,	he	was	greeted	with	a	cross	next
to	the	name	of	Barrington.	He	checked	the	rest	of	the	pile	slowly	and	carefully,	to	find	that	all	ninety-nine
of	them	had	voted	for	Barrington.	Finally	he	checked	the	fifth	pile,	which	were	all	Fisher’s.
No	one	had	noticed	that	the	Conservative	candidate	had	joined	the	little	group	surrounding	the	end
table.
‘Is	there	a	problem?’	asked	Fisher.
‘Nothing	I	can’t	handle,’	said	the	town	clerk,	turning	to	one	of	his	deputies	and	saying,	‘Ask	the	police
to	escort	this	gentleman	from	the	premises.’
He	then	had	a	word	with	his	secretary,	before	returning	to	the	stage	and	resuming	his	place	behind	the
adding	machine.	Once	again,	he	took	his	time	entering	each	figure	that	was	presented	by	his	deputies.
After	he’d	pressed	the	add	button	for	the	last	time,	he	entered	the	new	numbers	against	each	candidate’s
name,	and	when	he	was	finally	satisfied,	he	asked	them	all	to	come	back	on	stage.	This	time,	after	he	had
informed	them	of	the	revised	figures,	Giles	did	not	ask	for	a	re-count.
Wainwright	returned	to	the	microphone	to	announce	the	result	of	the	second	count	to	an	audience	who,
until	then,	had	been	surviving	on	Chinese	whispers.
‘.	.	.	declare	the	total	number	of	votes	cast	for	each	candidate	to	be	as	follows:
Sir	Giles	Barrington
Mr	Reginald	Ellsworthy
18,813		
3,472		Major	Alexander	Fisher
18,809.’
This	time	it	was	the	Labour	supporters	who	erupted,	holding	up	proceedings	for	several	minutes	before
Wainwright	was	able	to	announce	that	Major	Fisher	had	requested	a	recount.
‘Will	all	the	counters	please	check	their	numbers	carefully	for	a	third	time,	and	immediately	inform	one
of	my	deputies	if	there	are	any	changes	you	wish	to	report.’
When	the	town	clerk	returned	to	the	desk,	his	secretary	handed	him	the	reference	book	he	had
requested.	He	turned	several	pages	of	Macaulay’s	Election	Law	until	he	came	to	an	entry	he’d	marked
earlier	that	afternoon.	While	Wainwright	was	confirming	his	understanding	of	the	returning	officer’s
duties,	Fisher’s	scrutiny	team	were	charging	up	and	down	the	aisles	demanding	to	be	shown	the	second
ballot	paper	of	every	Barrington	stack.
Despite	this,	forty	minutes	later	Wainwright	was	able	to	announce	that	there	were	no	changes	from	the
result	of	the	second	count.	Fisher	immediately	demanded	another	re-count.
‘I	am	not	willing	to	grant	that	request,’	said	Wainwright.	‘The	numbers	have	been	consistent	on	three
separate	occasions,’	he	added,	quoting	Macaulay’s	exact	words.
‘But	that	is	blatantly	not	the	case,’	barked	Fisher.	‘They’ve	only	been	consistent	twice.	You	will	recall
that	I	won	the	first	count	quite	comfortably.’
‘They	have	been	consistent	three	times,’	repeated	Wainwright,	‘remembering	the	unfortunate	mistake
your	colleague	made	on	the	first	count.’
‘My	colleague?’	said	Fisher.	‘That	is	a	disgraceful	slur	on	my	character.	I’ve	never	seen	the	man	before
in	my	life.	If	you	don’t	withdraw	that	statement	and	allow	a	re-count,	I’ll	have	no	choice	but	to	consult	my
lawyers	in	the	morning.’
‘That	would	be	most	unfortunate,’	said	Wainwright,	‘because	I	wouldn’t	want	to	see	Councillor	Peter
Maynard	in	the	witness	box,	trying	to	explain	how	he’d	never	come	across	the	chairman	of	his	local
party’s	association,	who	also	happens	to	be	its	prospective	parliamentary	candidate.’
Fisher	turned	scarlet	and	marched	off	the	stage.
Mr	Wainwright	rose	from	his	place,	walked	slowly	towards	the	front	of	the	stage	and	tapped	the
microphone	for	the	last	time.	He	cleared	his	throat	and	announced,	‘I,	the	returning	officer	for	the
constituency	of	Bristol	Docklands,	declare	the	total	number	of	votes	cast	for	each	candidate	to	be	as
follows:
Sir	Giles	Barrington
Mr	Reginald	Ellsworthy
Major	Alexander	Fisher
18,813		
3,472		
18,809.’
‘I	therefore	declare	Sir	Giles	Barrington	to	be	the	duly	elected	Member	of	Parliament	for	the
constituency	of	Bristol	Docklands.’
The	Member	of	Parliament	for	Bristol	Docklands	looked	up	to	the	balcony	and	bowed	low	to	Sebastian
Clifton.SEBASTIAN	CLIFTON
1955–195726
‘R AISE	YOUR	GLASSES 	to	the	man	who	won	us	the	election!’	yelled	Griff,	who	was	teetering	precariously
on	a	table	in	the	middle	of	the	room,	a	glass	of	champagne	in	one	hand,	a	cigarette	in	the	other.
‘To	Sebastian!’	everyone	shouted,	to	laughter	and	applause.
‘Have	you	ever	drunk	champagne	before?’	asked	Griff	after	he	had	stepped	unsteadily	down	to	join
Sebastian.
‘Only	once,’	admitted	Sebastian,	‘when	my	friend	Bruno	celebrated	his	fifteenth	birthday,	and	his	father
took	the	two	of	us	out	to	supper	at	a	local	pub.	So	I	suppose	this	is	my	second	glass.’
‘Take	my	advice,’	said	Griff,	‘don’t	get	used	to	it.	It’s	the	nectar	of	the	rich.	We	working-class	lads,’	he
said,	putting	an	arm	around	him,	‘can	only	expect	to	have	a	couple	of	glasses	a	year,	and	then	at	someone
else’s	expense.’
‘But	I	intend	to	be	rich.’
‘Why	am	I	not	surprised?’	said	Griff,	filling	his	glass	again.	‘In	that	case	you’ll	have	to	become	a
champagne	socialist,	and	heaven	knows	we’ve	got	enough	of	them	in	our	party.’
‘I’m	not	in	your	party,’	said	Sebastian	firmly.	‘I’m	a	Tory	in	every	other	seat,	apart	from	the	one	Uncle
Giles	is	standing	in.’
‘Then	you’ll	have	to	come	and	live	in	Bristol,’	said	Griff	as	the	newly	re-elected	member	strolled
across	to	join	them.
‘Not	much	chance	of	that,’	said	Giles.	‘His	parents	tell	me	they	have	high	hopes	of	him	winning	a
scholarship	to	Cambridge.’
‘Well,	if	it’s	to	be	Cambridge	rather	than	Bristol,	you’ll	probably	end	up	seeing	more	of	your	uncle	than
we	do.’
‘You’ve	had	too	much	to	drink,	Griff,’	said	Giles,	patting	his	agent	on	the	back.
‘Not	as	much	as	I	would	have	had	if	we’d	lost,’	said	Griff,	downing	his	glass.	‘And	try	not	to	forget	the
bloody	Tories	have	increased	their	majority	in	the	House.’
‘We	ought	to	be	getting	home,	Seb,	if	you’re	going	to	be	in	any	shape	for	school	tomorrow.	Heaven
knows	how	many	rules	you’ve	broken	in	the	last	couple	of	hours.’
‘Can	I	say	goodnight	to	Miss	Parish	before	I	go?’
‘Yes,	of	course.	Why	don’t	you	do	that	while	I	go	and	pay	the	drinks	bill.	The	drinks	are	on	me,	now	the
election	is	over.’
Sebastian	wove	his	way	through	groups	of	volunteers,	some	swaying	like	branches	in	the	wind,	while
others,	heads	down	on	the	nearest	table,	had	passed	out,	or	were	simply	incapable	of	movement.	He
spotted	Miss	Parish	seated	in	an	alcove	on	the	far	side	of	the	room	with	two	empty	bottles	of	champagne
for	company.	When	he	finally	reached	her,	he	wasn’t	altogether	sure	she	recognized	him.
‘Miss	Parish,	I	just	wanted	to	thank	you	for	allowing	me	to	be	in	your	team.	I’ve	learnt	so	much	fromyou.	I	only	wish	you	were	one	of	my	teachers	at	the	Abbey.’
‘That	is	indeed	a	compliment,	Sebastian,’	said	Miss	Parish.	‘But	I	fear	I	was	born	in	the	wrong	century.
It	will	be	a	long	time	before	women	are	offered	the	chance	to	teach	at	an	independent	boys’	school.’	She
hauled	herself	up	and	gave	him	a	huge	hug.	‘Good	luck,	Sebastian,’	she	said.	‘I	hope	you	get	that
scholarship	to	Cambridge.’
‘What	did	Miss	Parish	mean,	she	was	born	in	the	wrong	century?’	asked	Sebastian	as	Giles	drove	them
back	to	the	Manor	House.
‘Simply	that	women	of	her	generation	weren’t	given	the	opportunity	to	pursue	a	proper	career,’	said
Giles.	‘She	would	have	made	a	great	teacher,	and	hundreds	of	children	would	have	benefited	from	her
wisdom	and	common	sense.	The	truth	is,	we	lost	two	generations	of	men	in	world	wars,	and	two
generations	of	women	who	weren’t	given	the	chance	to	take	their	places.’
‘Fine	words,	Uncle	Giles,	but	what	are	you	going	to	do	about	it?’
Giles	laughed.	‘I	could	have	done	a	damned	sight	more	if	we’d	won	the	election,	because	tomorrow	I
would	probably	have	been	in	the	Cabinet.	Now	I’ll	have	to	be	satisfied	with	another	stint	on	the
Opposition	front	bench.’
‘Is	my	mother	going	to	suffer	from	the	same	problem?’	asked	Sebastian.	‘Because	she’d	make	a	damned
good	MP.’
‘No,	although	I	can’t	see	her	wanting	to	enter	the	House.	I’m	afraid	she	doesn’t	suffer	fools	gladly,	and
that’s	part	of	the	job	description.	But	I	have	a	feeling	she’ll	end	up	surprising	us	all.’
Giles	brought	the	car	to	a	halt	outside	the	Manor	House,	switched	off	the	engine	and	placed	a	finger	to
his	lips.	‘Shh.	I	promised	your	mother	I	wouldn’t	wake	Jessica.’
The	two	of	them	tiptoed	across	the	gravel	and	Giles	opened	the	front	door	tentatively,	hoping	it
wouldn’t	creak.	They	were	about	halfway	across	the	hall	when	Giles	saw	her,	curled	up	in	a	chair	by	the
last	embers	of	a	dying	fire,	fast	asleep.	He	lifted	her	gently	and	carried	her	up	the	stairs	in	his	arms.
Sebastian	ran	ahead,	opened	her	bedroom	door	and	pulled	back	the	blanket	as	Giles	lowered	her	on	to	the
bed.	He	was	about	to	close	the	door	behind	him	when	he	heard	a	voice	say,	‘Did	we	win,	Uncle	Giles?’
‘Yes	we	did,	Jessica,’	Giles	whispered.	‘By	four	votes.’
‘One	of	them	was	mine,’	said	Jessica	after	a	lengthy	yawn,	‘because	I	got	Albert	to	vote	for	you.’
‘Then	that’s	worth	two	votes,’	said	Sebastian.	But	before	he	could	explain	why,	Jessica	had	fallen
asleep	again.
By	the	time	Giles	put	in	an	appearance	at	breakfast	the	following	morning,	it	might	have	been	better
described	as	brunch.
‘Good	morning,	good	morning,	good	morning,’	Giles	said	as	he	walked	around	the	table.	He	took	a
plate	from	the	sideboard,	lifted	the	lids	of	three	silver	salvers	and	selected	large	portions	of	scrambled
eggs,	bacon	and	baked	beans,	as	if	he	was	still	a	schoolboy.	He	sat	down	between	Sebastian	and	Jessica.
‘Mummy	says	you	ought	to	have	a	glass	of	fresh	orange	juice	and	some	cornflakes	with	milk	before	you
visit	the	hotplate,’	said	Jessica.
‘And	she’s	right,’	said	Giles,	‘but	it’s	not	going	to	stop	me	sitting	next	to	my	favourite	girlfriend.’
‘I’m	not	your	favourite	girlfriend,’	said	Jessica,	which	silenced	him	more	effectively	than	any	Tory
minister	had	ever	managed.	‘Mummy	told	me	that	Gwyneth	is	your	favourite	girlfriend.	Politicians!’	she
added,	mimicking	Emma,	who	burst	out	laughing.
Giles	tried	to	move	on	to	safer	ground,	turning	to	Sebastian	and	asking,	‘Will	you	be	playing	for	the
first	eleven	this	year?’
‘Not	if	we	want	to	win	any	matches,’	he	replied.	‘No,	I’ll	have	to	spend	most	of	my	time	making	sure	Ipass	eight	O	levels	if	I’m	to	have	any	chance	of	joining	the	remove	next	year.’
‘That	would	please	your	aunt	Grace.’
‘Not	to	mention	his	mother,’	said	Emma,	not	looking	up	from	her	paper.
‘What	will	be	your	chosen	subject	if	you	make	it	to	the	remove?’	asked	Giles,	still	trying	to	dig	himself
out	of	a	hole.
‘Modern	languages,	with	maths	as	my	back-up.’
‘Well,	if	you	do	win	a	scholarship	to	Cambridge,	you’ll	have	outdone	both	your	father	and	I.’
‘Your	father	and	me,’	corrected	Emma.
‘But	not	my	mama	or	Aunt	Grace,’	Sebastian	reminded	him.
‘True,’	admitted	Giles,	who	decided	to	keep	quiet	and	concentrate	on	his	morning	post,	which	Marsden
had	brought	across	from	Barrington	Hall.	He	slit	open	a	long	white	envelope	and	extracted	a	single	sheet
of	paper	that	he’d	been	expecting	for	the	past	six	months.	He	read	the	document	a	second	time,	before
leaping	joyfully	in	the	air.	Everyone	stopped	eating	and	stared	at	him,	until	Harry	eventually	asked,	‘Has
the	Queen	asked	you	to	form	a	government?’
‘No,	it’s	far	better	news	than	that,’	said	Giles.	‘Virginia	has	finally	signed	her	divorce	papers.	I’m	a
free	man	at	last!’
‘It	would	appear	that	she’s	signed	them	in	the	nick	of	time,’	said	Emma,	looking	up	from	the	Daily
Express.
‘What	do	you	mean?’	asked	Giles.
‘There’s	a	photograph	of	her	in	the	William	Hickey	column	this	morning,	and	she	looks	to	me	about
seven	months	pregnant.’
‘Does	it	say	who	the	father	is?’
‘No,	but	the	Duke	of	Arezzo	is	the	man	with	his	arm	around	her	in	the	photo.’	Emma	passed	the	paper	to
her	brother.	‘And	apparently	he	wants	everyone	to	know	that	he’s	the	happiest	man	in	the	world.’
‘The	second	happiest,’	said	Giles.
‘Does	that	mean	I’ll	never	have	to	speak	to	Lady	Virginia	again?’	asked	Jessica.
‘Yes	it	does,’	said	Giles.
‘Yippee,’	said	Jessica.
Giles	slit	open	another	envelope	and	extracted	a	cheque.	As	he	studied	it	he	raised	his	coffee	cup	to	his
grandfather,	Sir	Walter	Barrington,	coupled	with	the	name	of	Ross	Buchanan.
Emma	nodded	as	he	held	it	up	to	show	her,	and	mouthed	the	words,	‘I	got	one	too.’
A	few	moments	later,	the	door	opened	and	Denby	entered	the	room.
‘I’m	sorry	to	disturb	you,	Sir	Giles,	but	Dr	Hughes	is	on	the	line.’
‘I	was	just	about	to	call	her,’	said	Giles,	picking	up	his	morning	post	and	heading	for	the	door.
‘Why	don’t	you	take	it	in	my	study,’	said	Harry,	‘then	you	won’t	be	disturbed.’
‘Thank	you,’	said	Giles,	almost	running	out	of	the	room.
‘And	we’d	better	be	on	our	way,	Seb,’	said	Harry,	‘if	you	still	hope	to	be	back	in	time	for	prep	tonight.’
Sebastian	allowed	his	mother	to	give	him	a	perfunctory	kiss	before	going	upstairs	to	collect	his
suitcase.	When	he	came	back	down	a	few	moments	later,	Denby	was	holding	the	front	door	open	for	him.
‘Goodbye,	Master	Sebastian,’	he	said.	‘We’ll	look	forward	to	seeing	you	again	in	the	summer
holidays.’
‘Thank	you,	Denby,’	Sebastian	said	as	he	ran	out	on	to	the	drive,	where	he	found	Jessica	standing	by	the
passenger	door	of	the	car.	He	gave	her	a	big	hug	before	climbing	into	the	front	seat	next	to	his	father.
‘Make	sure	you	pass	all	eight	O	levels,’	Jessica	said,	‘so	I	can	tell	my	friends	how	clever	my	big
brother	is.’27
T HE	HEADMASTER	WOULD 	have	been	the	first	to	admit	that	the	boy	who	had	taken	a	couple	of	days	off	to
assist	his	uncle	at	the	general	election	was	not	the	same	young	man	who	returned	to	Beechcroft	Abbey	a
few	days	later.
Sebastian’s	housemaster,	Mr	Richards,	described	it	as	his	‘St	Paul	on	the	road	to	Bristol’	epiphany,
because	when	Clifton	came	back	to	begin	swotting	for	his	end-of-term	exams,	he	was	no	longer	satisfied
with	simply	coasting	and	relying	on	the	natural	gift	for	languages	and	maths	that	had	always	got	him	over
the	finishing	line	in	the	past.	For	the	first	time	in	his	life	he	began	to	work	just	as	hard	as	his	less	gifted
chums,	Bruno	Martinez	and	Vic	Kaufman.
When	the	results	of	their	O	levels	were	posted	on	the	school	notice	board,	no	one	was	surprised	that	all
three	of	them	would	be	starting	the	new	academic	year	in	the	sixth	form,	although	several	people,	not
including	his	aunt	Grace,	were	amazed	when	Sebastian	was	invited	to	join	the	select	group	who	were
chosen	to	sit	for	a	prize	scholarship	to	Cambridge.
Sebastian’s	housemaster	agreed	that	Clifton,	Kaufman	and	Martinez	could	share	a	study	during	their	final
year,	and	although	Sebastian	seemed	to	be	working	just	as	hard	as	his	two	friends,	Mr	Richards	told	the
headmaster	it	still	worried	him	that	the	boy	might	at	some	time	revert	to	his	old	ways.	Those	misgivings
might	have	proved	unfounded	if	four	separate	incidents	hadn’t	taken	place	during	Sebastian’s	last	year	at
Beechcroft	Abbey	that	would	shape	his	future.
The	first	occurred	early	in	the	new	term,	when	Bruno	invited	Sebastian	and	Vic	to	join	him	and	his
father	for	supper	at	the	Beechcroft	Arms	to	celebrate	defeating	the	examiners.	Sebastian	happily	accepted,
and	was	looking	forward	to	a	further	introduction	to	the	joys	of	champagne	when	the	celebration	was
called	off	at	the	last	moment.	Bruno	explained	that	something	had	arisen	that	caused	his	father	to	change
his	plans.
‘More	likely	he	changed	his	mind,’	said	Vic	after	Bruno	had	left	for	choir	practice.
‘What	are	you	getting	at?’	asked	Sebastian,	looking	up	from	his	prep.
‘I	think	you’ll	find	that	when	Mr	Martinez	discovered	I	was	Jewish,	and	Bruno	wouldn’t	agree	to
celebrate	without	me,	he	called	the	whole	thing	off.’
‘I	could	quite	understand	him	calling	the	whole	thing	off	because	you’re	a	wet	and	a	weed,	Kaufman,
but	who	gives	a	damn	that	you’re	Jewish?’
‘Far	more	people	than	you	realize,’	said	Vic.	‘Don’t	you	remember	when	Bruno	invited	you	to	his
fifteenth	birthday	party?	He	explained	at	the	time	that	he	was	only	allowed	to	take	one	guest,	and	it	would
be	my	turn	next.	We	Jews	don’t	forget	these	things.’
‘I	still	can’t	believe	Mr	Martinez	would	cancel	the	dinner	for	no	other	reason	than	that	you’re	Jewish.’‘Of	course	you	can’t,	Seb,	but	that’s	only	because	your	parents	are	civilized.	They	don’t	judge	people
on	which	cot	they	were	born	in,	and	they’ve	passed	that	lack	of	prejudice	on	to	you,	without	you	being
aware	of	it.	But	sadly	you	don’t	represent	the	majority,	even	in	this	school.’
Sebastian	wanted	to	protest,	but	his	friend	had	more	to	say	on	the	subject.
‘I	know	some	people	think	we	Jews	are	paranoid	about	the	Holocaust	–	and	who	could	blame	us	after
the	revelations	that	keep	coming	out	about	what	really	took	place	in	those	German	concentration	camps?
But	believe	me,	Seb,	I	can	smell	an	anti-Semite	at	thirty	paces,	and	it	will	only	be	a	matter	of	time	before
your	sister	has	to	face	up	to	the	same	problem.’
Sebastian	burst	out	laughing.	‘Jessica’s	not	Jewish.	A	little	bohemian	perhaps,	but	not	Jewish.’
‘I	can	assure	you,	Seb,	although	I’ve	only	met	her	once,	she’s	Jewish.’
It	took	a	lot	to	render	Sebastian	speechless,	but	Vic	had	managed	it.
The	second	incident	happened	during	the	summer	holiday,	when	Sebastian	joined	his	father	in	his	study
to	go	through	his	end-of-year	report.	Sebastian	was	glancing	at	the	large	selection	of	family	photographs
on	Harry’s	desk	when	one	in	particular	caught	his	attention:	a	picture	of	his	mother	linked	arm	in	arm	with
his	father	and	Uncle	Giles	on	the	lawn	of	the	Manor	House.	Mama	must	have	been	about	twelve,	perhaps
thirteen	at	the	time,	and	was	dressed	in	her	Red	Maids’	school	uniform.	For	a	moment	Sebastian	thought	it
was	Jessica,	they	looked	so	alike.	Surely	it	was	nothing	more	than	a	trick	of	the	light.	But	then	he	recalled
their	visit	to	Dr	Barnardo’s,	and	how	quickly	his	parents	had	given	way	when	he	insisted	that	Jessica	was
the	only	girl	he	would	consider	for	a	sister.
‘Overall,	very	satisfactory,’	said	his	father	after	he’d	turned	the	last	page	of	Sebastian’s	report.	‘I’m
sorry	you’re	dropping	Latin,	but	I’m	sure	the	headmaster	will	have	had	his	reasons	for	that.	And	I	agree
with	Dr	Banks-Williams	that,	if	you	continue	to	work	hard,	you’ve	got	a	good	chance	of	winning	a
scholarship	to	Cambridge.’	Harry	smiled.	‘Banks-Williams	is	not	a	man	given	to	hyperbole,	but	he	told
me	on	speech	day	that	he’s	making	arrangements	for	you	to	visit	his	old	college	some	time	next	term,	as	he
hopes	you’ll	follow	in	his	footsteps	at	Peterhouse,	where	of	course	he	was	himself	the	prize	scholar.’
Sebastian	was	still	staring	at	the	photograph.
‘Did	you	hear	what	I	just	said?’	asked	his	father.
‘Papa,’	said	Seb	quietly,	‘don’t	you	think	the	time	has	come	to	tell	me	the	truth	about	Jessica?’	He
transferred	his	gaze	from	the	photograph	to	his	father.
Harry	pushed	the	report	to	one	side,	hesitated	for	a	moment,	then	sat	back	and	told	Sebastian
everything.	He	started	with	how	Sebastian’s	grandfather	had	died	at	the	hands	of	Olga	Piotrovska,	then
moved	on	to	the	little	girl	who	had	been	discovered	in	a	basket	in	his	office,	and	how	Emma	had	tracked
her	down	to	a	Barnardo’s	home	in	Bridgwater.	When	he	came	to	the	end,	Sebastian	only	had	one	question.
‘And	when	will	you	tell	her	the	truth?’
‘I	ask	myself	that	same	question	every	day.’
‘But	why	have	you	waited	so	long,	Papa?’
‘Because	I	don’t	want	her	to	have	to	go	through	what	you	told	me	your	friend	Vic	Kaufman	experiences
every	day.’
‘Jessica	will	go	through	far	worse	if	she	stumbles	across	the	truth	herself,’	said	Sebastian.
Harry	was	shocked	by	his	next	question.
‘Do	you	want	me	to	tell	her?’
Harry	stared	in	disbelief	at	his	17-year-old	son.	When	does	a	child	become	an	adult,	he	wondered.
‘No,’	he	finally	said.	‘Your	mother	and	I	must	take	that	responsibility.	But	we’ll	have	to	find	the	right
moment.’
‘There	won’t	be	a	right	moment,’	said	Seb.
Harry	tried	to	recall	the	last	time	he	heard	those	words.
The	third	incident	arose	when	Sebastian	fell	in	love	for	the	first	time.	Not	with	a	woman,	but	a	city.	Itwas	love	at	first	sight,	because	he’d	never	come	across	anything	so	beautiful,	demanding,	desirable	and
tempting	all	at	the	same	time.	By	the	time	he	turned	his	back	on	her	to	go	back	to	Beechcroft,	he	was	even
more	determined	to	see	his	name	printed	in	gold	leaf	on	the	school’s	honours	board.
Once	Sebastian	had	returned	from	Cambridge,	he	began	to	work	hours	he	hadn’t	realized	existed,	and
even	the	headmaster	was	beginning	to	believe	that	the	unlikely	might	prove	possible.	But	then	Sebastian
met	his	second	love,	which	caused	the	final	incident.
He	had	been	aware	of	Ruby’s	existence	for	some	time,	but	it	wasn’t	until	his	final	term	at	Beechcroft
that	he	really	noticed	her.	He	might	not	have	done	so	even	then	if	she	hadn’t	touched	his	hand	while	he
was	standing	at	the	serving	plate	waiting	for	a	bowl	of	porridge.	Sebastian	assumed	it	was	an	accident,
and	wouldn’t	have	given	it	a	second	thought	if	it	hadn’t	happened	again	the	next	day.
He	was	queuing	for	a	second	helping	of	porridge,	despite	the	fact	that	Ruby	had	already	given	him
more	than	anyone	else	the	first	time	round.	As	he	turned	to	go	back	to	his	table,	Ruby	pressed	a	slip	of
paper	into	his	hand.	He	didn’t	read	it	until	he	was	alone	in	his	study	after	breakfast.
See	you	in	Skool	Lane	at	five?
Sebastian	was	well	aware	that	School	Lane	was	out	of	bounds,	and	if	a	boy	was	caught	there	he	would
get	six	of	the	best	from	his	housemaster.	But	he	thought	it	was	worth	the	risk.
When	the	bell	rang	to	announce	the	end	of	the	final	lesson,	Seb	slipped	out	of	the	classroom	and	took	a
long,	circuitous	route	around	the	playing	fields	before	climbing	over	a	wooden	fence	and	stumbling	down
a	steep	bank	into	School	Lane.	He	was	fifteen	minutes	late,	but	Ruby	appeared	from	behind	a	tree	and
headed	straight	for	him.	Sebastian	thought	she	looked	quite	different,	and	not	just	because	she	wasn’t
wearing	an	apron	and	had	changed	into	a	white	blouse	and	a	black	pleated	skirt.	She	had	also	let	her	hair
down,	and	it	was	the	first	time	he	had	seen	her	wearing	lipstick.
They	didn’t	find	a	lot	to	talk	about,	but	after	that	first	encounter	they	met	twice,	sometimes	three	times	a
week,	but	never	for	more	than	half	an	hour,	as	they	both	had	to	be	back	in	time	for	supper	at	six	o’clock.
Seb	had	kissed	Ruby	several	times	during	their	second	get-together	before	she	introduced	him	to	the
sensation	of	what	happened	when	their	lips	parted	and	their	tongues	touched.	However,	he	didn’t	progress
much	beyond	groping	and	trying	to	discover	different	parts	of	her	body	as	they	hid	behind	a	tree.	But	with
only	a	fortnight	to	go	before	the	end	of	term,	she	allowed	him	to	undo	the	buttons	of	her	blouse	and	place	a
hand	on	her	breast.	A	week	later	he	located	the	clip	on	the	back	of	her	bra,	and	decided	that	once	the
exams	were	over,	he	was	going	to	graduate	in	two	subjects.
And	that’s	when	it	all	went	wrong.28
‘R USTICATED ?’
‘You	have	left	me	with	no	choice,	Clifton.’
‘But	there	are	only	four	days	to	go	before	the	end	of	term,	sir.’
‘And	heaven	knows	what	you’d	get	up	to	during	that	time	if	I	didn’t	rusticate	you,’	countered	the
headmaster.
‘But	what	have	I	done	to	deserve	such	a	harsh	punishment,	sir?’
‘I	think	you	know	only	too	well	what	you’ve	done,	Clifton,	but	if	you	wish	me	to	spell	out	how	many
school	rules	you’ve	broken	in	the	last	few	days,	I	will	happily	do	so.’
Sebastian	had	to	stop	himself	from	grinning	as	he	recalled	his	latest	escapade.
Dr	Banks-Williams	lowered	his	head	and	studied	some	notes	he’d	jotted	down	before	summoning	the
boy	to	his	study.	It	was	some	time	before	he	spoke	again.
‘As	there	is	less	than	a	week	to	go	before	the	end	of	term,	Clifton,	and	as	you	have	completed	your	final
exams,	I	might	have	turned	a	blind	eye	to	you	being	caught	smoking	in	the	old	pavilion,	even	ignored	the
empty	beer	bottle	found	under	your	bed,	but	your	latest	indiscretion	cannot	be	dismissed	that	easily.’
‘My	latest	indiscretion?’	repeated	Sebastian,	enjoying	the	headmaster’s	embarrassment.
‘Being	found	in	your	study	with	a	serving	maid	after	lights	out.’
Sebastian	wanted	to	ask	if	it	would	have	been	all	right	if	she	hadn’t	been	a	serving	maid,	and	he’d	left
the	lights	on.	However,	he	realized	that	such	levity	might	land	him	in	even	deeper	trouble,	and	that	if	he
hadn’t	won	an	open	scholarship	to	Cambridge,	the	first	the	school	had	achieved	for	over	a	generation,	he
might	well	have	been	expelled,	and	not	just	rusticated.	But	he	was	already	considering	how	he	could	turn
his	rustication	from	a	disgrace	into	a	badge	of	honour.	After	Ruby	had	made	it	clear	that,	for	a	small
remuneration,	she	was	willing	to	pass	on	her	favours,	Sebastian	had	happily	accepted	her	terms,	and
she’d	agreed	to	climb	through	the	window	of	his	study	after	lights	out	that	evening.	Although	it	had	been
the	first	time	Sebastian	had	seen	a	naked	woman,	it	quickly	became	clear	to	him	that	Ruby	had	climbed
through	that	window	before.	The	headmaster	interrupted	his	thoughts.
‘I	need	to	ask	you	something,	man	to	man,’	he	said,	sounding	even	more	pompous	than	usual.	‘Your
response	may	well	influence	my	decision	as	to	whether	I	advise	the	admissions	tutor	at	Cambridge	to
withdraw	your	scholarship,	which	would	be	a	great	sadness	for	us	all	at	Beechcroft.	However,	my
paramount	responsibility	is	to	uphold	the	school’s	reputation.’
Sebastian	clenched	his	fists,	and	tried	to	remain	calm.	Being	rusticated	was	one	thing,	but	losing	his
place	at	Cambridge	would	be	quite	another.	He	stood	there,	waiting	for	the	headmaster	to	continue.
‘Take	your	time	before	you	answer	my	next	question,	Clifton,	because	it	may	well	determine	your
future.	Did	Kaufman	or	Martinez	play	any	part	in	your	–’	the	headmaster	hesitated,	clearly	searching	for
the	right	word,	but	finally	settled	on	repeating	–	‘indiscretions?’Sebastian	suppressed	a	smile.	The	idea	of	Victor	Kaufman	uttering	the	word	‘knickers’,	let	alone	trying
to	remove	said	article	of	clothing	from	Ruby,	would	have	caused	incredulity	and	mirth,	even	among	the
lower	fifth.
‘I	can	assure	you,	headmaster,’	said	Sebastian,	‘that	Victor	has	never,	to	my	knowledge,	smoked	a
cigarette	or	taken	a	sip	of	beer.	And	as	for	women,	he’s	embarrassed	when	he	has	to	undress	in	front	of
Matron.’
The	headmaster	smiled.	Clearly	Clifton	had	given	the	answer	he’d	wanted	to	hear,	and	it	had	the	added
advantage	of	being	the	truth.
‘And	Martinez?’
Sebastian	had	to	think	on	his	feet	if	was	going	to	save	his	closest	friend.	He	and	Bruno	had	been
inseparable	since	Sebastian	had	come	to	his	aid	during	a	dormitory	pillow	fight	in	his	first	term,	when	the
new	boy’s	only	crime	was	being	‘Johnny	Foreigner’	and,	even	worse,	hailing	from	a	country	that	didn’t
play	cricket,	a	pastime	Sebastian	loathed	–	which	only	made	their	bond	stronger.	Sebastian	knew	that
Bruno	indulged	in	the	occasional	cigarette,	and	he	had	once	joined	him	at	a	local	pub	for	a	beer,	but	only
after	their	exams.	He	also	knew	that	Bruno	wouldn’t	be	averse	to	what	Ruby	had	to	offer.	What	he
couldn’t	be	sure	of	was	how	much	the	headmaster	already	knew.	Added	to	that	was	the	fact	that	Bruno	had
also	been	offered	a	place	at	Cambridge	in	September	and,	although	he’d	only	met	his	friend’s	father	a
couple	of	times,	he	wouldn’t	want	to	be	the	one	held	responsible	for	his	son	not	going	up	to	Cambridge.
‘And	Martinez?’	the	headmaster	repeated	a	little	more	firmly.
‘Bruno,	as	I’m	sure	you	know,	headmaster,	is	a	devout	Roman	Catholic,	and	he	has	told	me	on	several
occasions	that	the	first	woman	he	sleeps	with	will	be	his	wife.’	That	much	was	true,	even	if	he	hadn’t
expressed	that	view	quite	so	vociferously	lately.
The	headmaster	nodded	thoughtfully,	and	Sebastian	wondered	for	a	moment	if	he’d	got	away	with	it,
until	Dr	Banks-Williams	added,	‘And	what	about	the	smoking	and	drinking?’
‘He	did	once	try	a	cigarette	during	the	holidays,’	admitted	Sebastian,	‘but	it	made	him	sick,	and	to	my
knowledge	he	hasn’t	indulged	since.’	Well,	not	since	last	night,	he	was	tempted	to	add.	The	headmaster
looked	unconvinced.	‘And	I	did	see	him	drink	a	glass	of	champagne	on	one	occasion,	but	only	after	he’d
been	offered	a	place	at	Cambridge.	And	he	was	with	his	father	at	the	time.’
What	Sebastian	didn’t	admit	was	that	after	Mr	Martinez	had	driven	them	back	to	school	in	his	red
Rolls-Royce	that	evening,	Sebastian	had	smuggled	the	bottle	into	his	study,	where	they’d	finished	it	off
after	lights	out.	But	Sebastian	had	read	too	many	of	his	father’s	detective	novels	not	to	know	that	guilty
people	often	condemn	themselves	by	saying	one	sentence	too	many.
‘I	am	obliged,	Clifton,	for	your	frankness	in	this	matter.	It	can’t	have	been	easy	for	you	to	be	questioned
about	a	friend.	Nobody	likes	a	sneak.’
This	was	followed	by	another	long	pause,	but	Sebastian	didn’t	break	it.
‘Clearly	there	is	no	reason	for	me	to	trouble	Kaufman,’	the	headmaster	eventually	managed,	‘although	I
will	need	to	have	a	word	with	Martinez,	just	to	ensure	he	doesn’t	break	any	school	rules	during	his	last
few	days	at	Beechcroft.’
Sebastian	smiled,	as	a	bead	of	sweat	trickled	down	his	nose.
‘Nevertheless,	I	have	written	to	your	father,	explaining	why	you	will	be	returning	home	a	few	days
early.	But	because	of	your	candour	and	evident	remorse,	I	shall	not	be	informing	the	admissions	tutor	at
Cambridge	that	you	have	been	rusticated.’
‘I’m	most	grateful,	sir,’	said	Sebastian,	sounding	genuinely	relieved.
‘You	will	now	return	to	your	study,	pack	your	belongings	and	prepare	to	leave	immediately.	Your
housemaster	has	been	forewarned,	and	will	sort	out	your	travel	arrangements	to	Bristol.’
‘Thank	you,	sir,’	said	Sebastian,	his	head	bowed,	for	fear	the	headmaster	might	see	the	smirk	on	his
face.‘Do	not	attempt	to	contact	either	Kaufman	or	Martinez	before	you	leave	the	school	premises.	And	one
other	thing,	Clifton,	school	rules	will	still	apply	to	you	until	the	last	day	of	term.	Should	you	break	even
one	of	them,	I	will	not	hesitate	to	reconsider	my	position	concerning	your	place	at	Cambridge.	Is	that
understood?’
‘Absolutely,’	said	Sebastian.
‘Let	us	hope	you	have	learnt	something	from	this	experience,	Clifton,	something	that	will	benefit	you	in
the	future.’
‘Let’s	hope	so,’	said	Sebastian,	as	the	headmaster	rose	from	behind	his	desk	and	handed	him	a	letter.
‘Please	give	this	to	your	father	as	soon	as	you	get	home.’
‘I	most	certainly	will,’	said	Sebastian,	placing	the	letter	in	an	inside	pocket	of	his	jacket.
The	headmaster	thrust	out	his	hand	and	Sebastian	shook	it,	but	without	a	great	deal	of	enthusiasm.
‘Good	luck,	Clifton,’	the	headmaster	said	unconvincingly.
‘Thank	you,	sir,’	Sebastian	replied,	before	closing	the	door	quietly	behind	him.
The	headmaster	sat	back	down,	well	satisfied	with	how	the	meeting	had	gone.	He	was	relieved,	though
not	surprised,	that	Kaufman	had	not	been	involved	in	such	a	distasteful	incident,	especially	as	his	father,
Saul	Kaufman,	was	a	school	governor,	as	well	as	chairman	of	Kaufman’s	Bank,	one	of	the	most	respected
financial	institutions	in	the	City	of	London.
And	he	certainly	didn’t	want	to	fall	out	with	Martinez’s	father,	who	had	recently	hinted	that	he	would
be	giving	a	donation	of	£10,000	to	the	school	library	appeal	if	his	son	was	offered	a	place	at	Cambridge.
He	wasn’t	altogether	sure	how	Don	Pedro	Martinez	had	made	his	fortune,	but	any	fees	or	extras	were
always	paid	by	return	of	post.
Clifton,	on	the	other	hand,	had	been	a	problem	from	the	moment	he	had	walked	through	the	school
gates.	The	headmaster	had	tried	to	be	understanding,	in	view	of	all	that	the	boy’s	mother	and	father	had
been	through,	but	there	was	a	limit	to	how	much	the	school	could	be	expected	to	tolerate.	In	fact,	if	Clifton
hadn’t	been	likely	to	win	that	open	scholarship	to	Cambridge,	Dr	Banks-Williams	wouldn’t	have	hesitated
to	expel	him	some	time	ago.	He	was	glad	to	have	finally	seen	the	back	of	him,	and	only	hoped	he	wouldn’t
join	the	Old	Boys.
‘Old	Boys,’	he	said	out	loud,	jogging	his	memory.	He	was	due	to	address	their	annual	dinner	in	London
that	evening,	when	he	would	present	his	end-of-term	report;	his	last,	after	fifteen	years	as	headmaster.	He
didn’t	much	care	for	the	Welshman	who	had	been	chosen	to	succeed	him;	the	sort	of	chap	who	didn’t	tie
his	bow	tie,	and	probably	would	have	let	Clifton	off	with	a	warning.
His	secretary	had	typed	up	his	speech	and	left	a	copy	on	his	desk	for	him	to	go	over	in	case	he	wanted
to	make	some	late	changes.	He	would	have	liked	to	read	it	one	more	time,	but	having	to	deal	with	Clifton
had	made	that	impossible.	Any	last-minute	emendations	would	have	to	be	added	by	hand	during	the	train
journey	up	to	London.
He	checked	his	watch,	placed	the	speech	in	his	briefcase	and	headed	upstairs	to	his	private	quarters.
He	was	pleased	to	find	that	his	wife	had	already	packed	his	dinner	jacket	and	trousers,	a	starched	white
shirt,	a	bow	tie,	a	change	of	socks	and	a	wash	bag.	He’d	made	it	clear	to	the	chairman	of	the	Old	Boys
that	he	didn’t	approve	when	they’d	voted	to	stop	wearing	white	tie	and	tails	for	the	annual	dinner.
His	wife	drove	him	to	the	station,	and	they	arrived	only	minutes	before	the	express	to	Paddington	was
due.	He	purchased	a	first-class	return	ticket	and	hurried	across	the	bridge	to	the	far	platform,	where	an
engine	was	just	coming	to	a	halt	before	disgorging	its	passengers.	He	stepped	on	to	the	platform	and
checked	his	watch	again.	Four	minutes	to	spare.	He	nodded	to	the	guard,	who	was	exchanging	a	red	flag
for	a	green	one.‘All	aboard,’	the	guard	shouted,	as	the	headmaster	headed	for	the	first-class	section	at	the	front	of	the
train.
He	climbed	into	the	carriage	and	sank	back	into	a	corner	seat,	only	to	be	greeted	by	a	cloud	of	smoke.
A	disgusting	habit.	He	agreed	with	The	Times’	correspondent	who	had	recently	suggested	that	the	Great
Western	Railway	should	designate	far	more	no-smoking	carriages	for	first-class	passengers.
The	headmaster	took	the	speech	out	of	his	briefcase	and	placed	it	on	his	lap.	He	looked	up	as	the	smoke
cleared,	and	saw	him	sitting	on	the	other	side	of	the	carriage.29
S EBASTIAN	STUBBED	OUT 	his	cigarette,	leapt	up,	grabbed	his	suitcase	from	the	rack	above	him	and	left	the
carriage	without	a	word.	He	was	painfully	aware	that	although	the	headmaster	said	nothing,	his	eyes
never	left	him.
He	humped	his	suitcase	through	several	carriages	to	the	far	end	of	the	train,	where	he	squeezed	himself
into	an	overcrowded	third-class	carriage.	As	he	stared	out	of	the	window,	he	tried	to	think	if	there	was
any	way	out	of	his	present	predicament.
Perhaps	he	should	return	to	first	class	and	explain	to	the	headmaster	that	he	was	going	to	spend	a	few
days	in	London	with	his	uncle,	Sir	Giles	Barrington,	MP?	But	why	would	he	do	that,	when	he’d	been
instructed	to	return	to	Bristol	and	hand	Dr	Banks-Williams’s	letter	to	his	father?	The	truth	was	that	his
parents	were	in	Los	Angeles	attending	a	ceremony	at	which	his	mother	was	to	be	awarded	her	business
degree,	summa	cum	laude,	and	they	wouldn’t	be	arriving	back	in	England	before	the	end	of	the	week.
Then	why	didn’t	you	tell	me	that	in	the	first	place,	he	could	hear	the	headmaster	saying,	and	then	your
housemaster	could	have	issued	you	with	the	correct	ticket?	Because	he	had	intended	to	return	to	Bristol	on
the	last	day	of	term,	so	when	they	turned	up	on	Saturday,	they	would	be	none	the	wiser.	He	might	even
have	got	away	with	it,	if	he	hadn’t	been	in	a	first-class	carriage,	smoking.	After	all,	he’d	been	warned
what	the	consequences	would	be	if	he	broke	another	school	rule	before	the	end	of	term.	End	of	term.	He’d
broken	three	school	rules	within	an	hour	of	leaving	the	premises.	But	then,	he	never	thought	he’d	see	the
headmaster	again	in	his	life.
He	wanted	to	say,	I’m	an	Old	Boy	now	and	I	can	do	as	I	please,	but	he	knew	that	wouldn’t	work.	And	if
he	did	decide	to	return	to	first	class,	there	was	a	risk	that	the	headmaster	would	discover	he	only	had	a
third-class	ticket;	a	wheeze	he	always	tried	on	whenever	he	travelled	to	and	from	school	at	the	beginning
and	end	of	term.
He	would	occupy	the	corner	seat	of	a	first-class	carriage,	making	sure	he	had	a	clear	view	of	the
corridor.	The	moment	the	ticket	collector	entered	the	far	end	of	the	carriage,	Sebastian	would	nip	out	and
disappear	into	the	nearest	lavatory,	not	locking	the	door	but	leaving	the	vacant	sign	in	place.	Once	the
ticket	collector	had	moved	on	to	the	next	carriage,	he	would	slip	back	into	the	first-class	compartment	for
the	rest	of	the	journey.	And	as	it	was	a	non-stop	service,	the	wheeze	never	failed.	Well,	it	had	nearly
failed	once,	when	a	vigilant	conductor	had	doubled	back	and	caught	him	in	the	wrong	carriage.	He’d
immediately	burst	into	tears	and	apologized,	explaining	that	his	mother	and	father	always	travelled	first
class,	and	he	didn’t	even	realize	there	was	a	third	class.	He	had	got	away	with	it,	but	then	he’d	only	been
eleven	at	the	time.	Now	he	was	seventeen,	and	it	wouldn’t	only	be	the	ticket	collector	who	didn’t	believe
him.
He	dismissed	any	chance	of	a	reprieve	and,	accepting	that	he	wouldn’t	be	going	up	to	Cambridge	in
September,	Sebastian	began	to	consider	what	he	should	do	once	the	train	pulled	into	Paddington.The	headmaster	didn’t	even	glance	at	his	speech	as	the	train	sped	through	the	countryside	towards	the
capital.
Should	he	go	and	look	for	the	boy	and	demand	an	explanation?	He	knew	Clifton’s	housemaster	had
supplied	him	with	a	third-class	single	to	Bristol,	so	what	was	he	doing	in	a	first-class	carriage	bound	for
London?	Had	he	somehow	got	on	the	wrong	train?	No,	that	boy	always	knew	in	which	direction	he	was
going.	He	just	hadn’t	expected	to	be	caught.	In	any	case,	he’d	been	smoking,	despite	having	been
explicitly	told	that	school	rules	would	apply	until	the	last	day	of	term.	The	boy	hadn’t	even	waited	an	hour
to	defy	him.	There	were	no	mitigating	circumstances.	Clifton	had	left	him	with	no	choice.
He	would	announce	at	assembly	tomorrow	morning	that	Clifton	had	been	expelled.	He	would	then
phone	the	admissions	tutor	at	Peterhouse,	and	then	the	boy’s	father,	to	explain	why	his	son	would	no
longer	be	going	up	to	Cambridge	that	Michaelmas.	After	all,	Dr	Banks-Williams	had	to	consider	the	good
name	of	the	school,	which	he	had	nurtured	assiduously	for	the	past	fifteen	years.
He	turned	several	pages	of	his	speech	before	he	came	across	the	relevant	passage.	He	read	the	words
he’d	written	about	Clifton’s	achievement,	hesitated	for	a	moment,	and	then	drew	a	line	through	them.
Sebastian	was	considering	whether	he	should	be	the	first	or	the	last	off	the	train	when	it	pulled	into
Paddington.	It	didn’t	matter	much,	as	long	as	he	avoided	bumping	into	the	headmaster.
He	decided	to	be	first,	and	perched	on	the	edge	of	his	seat	for	the	last	twenty	minutes	of	the	journey.	He
checked	his	pockets	to	find	he	had	one	pound	twelve	shillings	and	sixpence,	far	more	than	usual,	but	then
his	housemaster	had	reimbursed	all	his	unspent	pocket	money.
He	had	originally	planned	to	spend	a	few	days	in	London	before	returning	to	Bristol	on	the	last	day	of
term,	when	he	had	absolutely	no	intention	of	handing	the	headmaster’s	letter	to	his	father.	He	removed	the
envelope	from	his	pocket.	It	was	addressed	to	H.A.	Clifton	Esq.:	Private.	Sebastian	glanced	around	the
carriage	to	check	that	no	one	was	looking	at	him	before	he	ripped	it	open.	He	read	the	headmaster’s
words	slowly,	and	then	reread	them.	The	letter	was	measured,	fair	and,	to	his	surprise,	made	no	mention
of	Ruby.	If	only	he’d	taken	the	train	to	Bristol,	gone	home	and	handed	the	letter	to	his	father	after	he
returned	from	America,	things	might	have	been	so	different.	Damn	it.	What	was	the	headmaster	doing	on
the	train	in	the	first	place?
Sebastian	returned	the	letter	to	his	pocket	and	tried	to	concentrate	on	what	he	would	do	in	London,
because	he	certainly	wouldn’t	be	returning	to	Bristol	until	this	had	all	blown	over,	and	that	might	not	be
for	some	time.	But	how	long	could	he	hope	to	survive	on	one	pound	twelve	shillings	and	sixpence?	He
was	about	to	find	out.
He	was	standing	by	the	carriage	door	long	before	the	train	pulled	into	Paddington,	and	had	opened	it
even	before	it	had	come	to	a	halt.	He	leapt	out,	ran	towards	the	barrier	as	fast	as	his	heavy	suitcase	would
allow	and	handed	his	ticket	to	the	collector	before	disappearing	into	the	crowd.
Sebastian	had	only	visited	London	once	before,	and	on	that	occasion	he’d	been	with	his	parents,	and
there	had	been	a	car	waiting	to	pick	them	up	and	whisk	them	off	to	his	uncle’s	town	house	in	Smith
Square.	Uncle	Giles	had	taken	him	to	the	Tower	of	London	to	see	the	Crown	Jewels,	and	then	on	to
Madame	Tussaud’s	to	admire	the	waxworks	of	Edmund	Hillary,	Betty	Grable	and	Don	Bradman	before
having	tea	and	a	sticky	bun	at	the	Regent	Palace	Hotel.	The	following	day	he’d	given	them	a	tour	of	the
House	of	Commons,	and	they’d	seen	Winston	Churchill	glowering	from	the	front	bench.	Sebastian	had
been	surprised	to	find	how	small	he	was.
When	it	was	time	for	him	to	go	home,	Sebastian	had	told	his	uncle	that	he	couldn’t	wait	to	come	back	to
London.	Now	he	had,	there	was	no	car	to	pick	him	up,	and	the	last	person	he	could	risk	visiting	was	hisuncle.	He	had	no	idea	where	he	would	spend	the	night.
As	he	made	his	way	through	the	crowd,	someone	bumped	into	him,	nearly	knocking	him	over.	He	turned
to	see	a	young	man	hurrying	away	–	he	hadn’t	even	bothered	to	apologize.
Sebastian	walked	out	of	the	station	and	into	a	street	crammed	with	Victorian	terraced	houses,	several	of
which	displayed	bed-and-breakfast	signs	in	their	windows.	He	selected	the	one	with	the	brightest
polished	door	knocker	and	the	neatest	window	boxes.	A	comely	woman	wearing	a	floral	nylon	housecoat
answered	his	knock,	and	gave	her	potential	guest	a	welcoming	smile.	If	she	was	surprised	to	find	a	young
man	in	school	uniform	standing	on	her	doorstep,	she	didn’t	show	it.
‘Come	in,’	she	said.	‘Are	you	looking	for	accommodation,	sir?’
‘Yes,’	said	Sebastian,	surprised	to	be	called	‘sir’.	‘I	need	a	room	for	the	night,	and	wondered	how
much	you	charge?’
‘Four	shillings	a	night,	including	breakfast,	or	a	pound	for	a	week.’
‘I	only	need	a	room	for	one	night,’	said	Sebastian,	having	realized	he	would	have	to	search	for	cheaper
accommodation	in	the	morning	if	he	intended	to	stay	in	London	for	any	length	of	time.
‘Of	course,’	she	said	as	she	picked	up	his	suitcase	and	headed	down	the	corridor.
Sebastian	had	never	seen	a	woman	carrying	a	suitcase	before,	but	she	was	halfway	up	the	stairs	before
he	could	do	anything	about	it.
‘My	name’s	Mrs	Tibbet,’	she	said,	‘but	my	regulars	call	me	Tibby.’	When	she	reached	the	first-floor
landing,	she	added,	‘I’ll	be	putting	you	in	number	seven.	It’s	at	the	back	of	the	house,	so	you’re	less	likely
to	be	woken	by	the	morning	traffic.’
Sebastian	had	no	idea	what	she	was	talking	about,	as	he’d	never	been	woken	by	traffic	in	his	life.
Mrs	Tibbet	unlocked	the	door	to	room	seven	and	stood	aside	to	allow	her	guest	to	enter.	The	room	was
smaller	than	his	study	at	Beechcroft,	but,	like	its	owner,	it	was	neat	and	tidy.	There	was	a	single	bed,	with
clean	sheets,	and	a	washbasin	in	the	corner.
‘You’ll	find	the	bathroom	at	the	end	of	the	corridor,’	Mrs	Tibbet	said	before	he	could	ask.
‘I’ve	changed	my	mind,	Mrs	Tibbet,’	he	said,	‘I’ll	take	it	for	a	week.’
She	took	a	key	out	of	her	housecoat	but	before	she	handed	it	over	she	said,	‘Then	that	will	be	one
pound,	in	advance.’
‘Yes,	of	course,’	said	Sebastian.	He	reached	into	his	trouser	pocket,	only	to	find	it	was	empty.	He	tried
another	pocket,	and	then	another,	but	there	was	no	sign	of	his	money.	He	finally	fell	to	his	knees,	opened
his	suitcase,	and	began	frantically	searching	among	his	clothes.
Mrs	Tibbet	placed	her	hands	on	her	hips,	her	smile	no	longer	on	display.	Sebastian	rummaged	in	vain
among	his	clothes	until	he	finally	gave	up,	collapsed	on	to	the	bed	and	prayed	that	Tibby	would	be	more
sympathetic	than	the	headmaster.
The	headmaster	checked	into	his	room	at	the	Reform	Club	and	had	a	quick	bath	before	changing	into	his
dinner	jacket.	He	checked	his	bow	tie	in	the	mirror	above	the	washbasin,	then	returned	downstairs	to	join
his	host.
Nick	Judd,	the	chairman	of	the	Old	Boys,	was	waiting	at	the	bottom	of	the	stairs,	and	led	his	guest	of
honour	into	the	reception	room,	where	they	joined	other	members	of	the	committee	at	the	bar.
‘What	will	you	have	to	drink,	headmaster?’	asked	the	chairman.
‘Just	a	dry	sherry,	please.’
Judd’s	next	words	disconcerted	him.	‘Allow	me	to	be	the	first	to	congratulate	you,’	he	said	after	he’d
ordered	the	drinks,	‘on	the	school	being	awarded	the	top	scholarship	to	Peterhouse.	A	worthy	accolade	to
crown	your	final	year.’The	headmaster	said	nothing,	but	realized	that	the	three	lines	he	had	crossed	out	of	his	speech	would
have	to	be	reinstated.	The	news	of	Clifton’s	expulsion	needn’t	come	out	until	later.	After	all,	the	boy	had
won	the	scholarship,	and	that	wouldn’t	change	until	he	had	spoken	to	the	admissions	tutor	at	Cambridge	in
the	morning.
Unfortunately,	the	chairman	wasn’t	the	only	person	to	refer	to	Clifton’s	achievement,	and	by	the	time	the
headmaster	rose	to	deliver	his	annual	report,	he	saw	no	reason	to	let	the	assembled	gathering	know	what
he	had	planned	to	do	the	following	day.	He	was	surprised	that	the	announcement	of	the	top	scholarship
received	such	prolonged	applause.
The	speech	was	well	received,	and	when	Dr	Banks-Williams	sat	down,	so	many	Old	Boys	came	up	to
the	top	table	to	wish	him	a	happy	retirement	that	he	nearly	missed	the	last	train	back	to	Beechcroft.	No
sooner	had	he	settled	down	in	his	first-class	compartment	than	his	thoughts	returned	to	Sebastian	Clifton.
He	began	to	write	down	a	few	words	for	his	address	to	morning	assembly:	‘standards’,	‘decency’,
‘honour’,	‘discipline’	and	‘respect’	came	to	mind,	and	by	the	time	the	train	pulled	into	Beechcroft,	he	had
completed	the	first	draft.
When	he	handed	in	his	ticket,	he	was	relieved	to	see	his	wife	sitting	in	the	car	waiting	for	him,	despite
the	late	hour.
‘How	did	you	get	on?’	she	asked,	even	before	he’d	pulled	the	car	door	closed.
‘I	think	I	can	say	my	speech	was	well	received,	given	the	circumstances.’
‘The	circumstances?’
By	the	time	they	had	reached	the	headmaster’s	house,	he	had	told	his	wife	all	about	the	unfortunate
encounter	with	Clifton	that	had	taken	place	on	the	train	to	London.
‘And	what	do	you	intend	to	do	about	it?’	she	asked	as	he	unlocked	the	front	door.
‘He’s	left	me	with	no	choice.	I	shall	announce	at	morning	assembly	that	Clifton	has	been	expelled,	and
therefore	sadly	will	not	be	taking	up	his	place	at	Cambridge	in	September.’
‘Isn’t	that	a	little	draconian?’	suggested	Mrs	Banks-Williams.	‘After	all,	he	may	well	have	had	a	good
reason	for	being	on	the	London	train.’
‘Then	why	did	he	leave	the	carriage	the	moment	he	saw	me?’
‘He	probably	didn’t	want	to	spend	the	whole	journey	with	you,	my	dear.	After	all,	you	can	be	quite
intimidating.’
‘But	don’t	forget,	I	also	caught	him	smoking,’	he	said,	ignoring	her	comment.
‘Why	shouldn’t	he?	He	was	off	the	premises,	and	no	longer	in	statu	pupillari.’
‘I	made	it	quite	clear	that	school	rules	would	apply	to	him	until	the	end	of	term,	otherwise	he	would
have	to	face	the	consequences.’
‘Would	you	care	for	a	nightcap,	my	dear?’
‘No,	thank	you.	I	must	try	and	get	a	good	night’s	sleep.	Tomorrow	isn’t	going	to	be	easy.’
‘For	you,	or	for	Clifton?’	she	enquired	before	turning	the	light	out.
Sebastian	sat	on	the	end	of	the	bed	and	told	Mrs	Tibbet	everything	that	had	taken	place	that	day.	He	left
nothing	out,	even	showing	her	the	letter	the	headmaster	had	written.
‘Don’t	you	think	it	might	be	wise	to	go	home?	After	all,	your	parents	will	be	worried	to	death	if	you’re
not	there	when	they	get	back.	And	in	any	case,	you	can’t	be	certain	the	headmaster	is	going	to	expel	you.’
‘Believe	me,	Mrs	Tibbet,	Hilly-Billy	will	have	made	up	his	mind,	and	he’ll	announce	his	decision	at
assembly	tomorrow.’
‘You	should	still	go	home.’
‘I	can’t,	after	letting	them	down.	The	one	thing	they’ve	always	wanted	was	for	me	to	go	to	Cambridge.They’ll	never	forgive	me.’
‘I	wouldn’t	be	so	sure	of	that,’	said	Mrs	Tibbet.	‘My	father	always	used	to	say,	if	you’ve	got	a	problem,
sleep	on	it	before	you	make	a	decision	you	might	later	regret.	Things	always	look	rosier	in	the	morning.’
‘But	I	haven’t	even	got	anywhere	to	sleep.’
‘Don’t	be	silly,’	Mrs	Tibbet	said,	placing	an	arm	around	his	shoulder.	‘You	can	spend	the	night	here.
But	not	on	an	empty	stomach,	so	once	you’ve	unpacked,	come	down	and	join	me	in	the	kitchen.’30
‘I’ VE	GOT	A	PROBLEM 	with	table	three,’	said	the	waitress	as	she	barged	through	the	door	and	into	the
kitchen.
‘What	sort	of	problem,	Janice?’	asked	Mrs	Tibbet	calmly,	cracking	two	eggs	and	dropping	them	into	a
large	frying	pan.
‘I	can’t	understand	a	word	they’re	saying.’
‘Ah,	yes,	Mr	and	Mrs	Ferrer.	I	think	they’re	French.	All	you	need	to	know	is	un,	deux	and	oeuf.’	Janice
didn’t	look	convinced.	‘Just	speak	slowly,’	said	Mrs	Tibbet,	‘and	don’t	raise	your	voice.	It’s	not	their
fault	they	can’t	speak	English.’
‘Would	you	like	me	to	have	a	word	with	them?’	asked	Sebastian	as	he	put	down	his	knife	and	fork.
‘Can	you	speak	French?’	asked	Mrs	Tibbet,	placing	the	pan	back	on	the	Aga.
‘Yes	I	can.’
‘Then	be	my	guest.’
Sebastian	rose	from	the	kitchen	table	and	accompanied	Janice	back	to	the	dining	room.	All	nine	tables
were	occupied,	and	Janice	walked	across	to	a	middle-aged	couple	who	were	seated	in	the	far	corner	of
the	room.
‘Bonjour,	monsieur,’	said	Sebastian.	‘Comment	puis-je	vous	aider?’
The	startled	guest	gave	Sebastian	a	puzzled	look.	‘Somos	español.’
‘Buenas	dias,	señ	or.	Cómo	puedo	ayudarle?’	said	Sebastian.	Janice	waited	while	Mr	and	Mrs	Ferrer
had	finished	speaking	to	him.	‘Volveré	en	uno	momento,’	said	Sebastian,	and	returned	to	the	kitchen.
‘So	what	do	our	French	friends	want?’	asked	Mrs	Tibbet,	as	she	cracked	two	more	eggs.
‘They’re	Spanish,	not	French,’	said	Sebastian,	‘and	they’d	like	some	lightly	toasted	brown	bread,	a
couple	of	three-minute	boiled	eggs	and	two	cups	of	black	coffee.’
‘Anything	else?’
‘Yes,	directions	to	the	Spanish	Embassy.’
‘Janice,	you	serve	their	coffee	and	toast	while	I	take	care	of	the	eggs.’
‘And	what	can	I	do?’	asked	Sebastian.
‘There’s	a	telephone	directory	on	the	hall	table.	Look	up	the	Spanish	Embassy,	then	find	a	map	and
show	them	how	to	get	there.’
‘By	the	way,’	Sebastian	said,	placing	a	sixpence	on	the	table,	‘they	gave	me	this.’
Mrs	Tibbet	smiled.	‘Your	first	tip.’
‘The	first	money	I’ve	ever	earned,’	said	Sebastian,	pushing	the	coin	across	the	table.	‘So	now	I	only
owe	you	three	and	six.’	He	left	the	kitchen	without	another	word	and	picked	up	the	telephone	directory
from	the	hall	table.	He	looked	up	the	Spanish	Embassy	and,	after	finding	it	on	a	map,	he	told	Mr	and	Mrs
Ferrer	how	to	get	to	Chesham	Place.	A	few	moments	later	he	returned	to	the	kitchen	with	anothersixpence.
‘Keep	this	up,’	said	Mrs	Tibbet,	‘and	I’ll	have	to	make	you	a	partner.’
Sebastian	took	off	his	jacket,	rolled	up	his	sleeves	and	made	his	way	across	to	the	sink.
‘Now	what	do	you	think	you’re	doing?’
‘I’m	going	to	do	the	washing-up,’	he	replied,	as	he	turned	on	the	hot	tap.	‘Isn’t	that	what	customers	in
films	do,	when	they	can’t	pay	their	bill?’
‘I’ll	bet	that’s	another	first	for	you,’	said	Mrs	Tibbet,	as	she	placed	two	rashers	of	bacon	next	to	two
fried	eggs.	‘Table	one,	Janice,	Mr	and	Mrs	Ramsbottom	from	Yorkshire.	I	can’t	understand	a	word	they
say	either.	So	tell	me,	Sebastian,’	she	said	as	Janice	walked	out	of	the	kitchen,	‘can	you	speak	any	other
languages?’
‘German,	Italian,	French	and	Hebrew.’
‘Hebrew?	Are	you	Jewish?’
‘No,	but	one	of	my	pals	at	school	was,	and	he	taught	it	to	me	during	chemistry	lessons.’
Mrs	Tibbet	laughed.	‘I	think	you	should	get	yourself	off	to	Cambridge	as	quickly	as	possible,	because
you’re	just	not	qualified	to	be	a	dishwasher.’
‘I	won’t	be	going	to	Cambridge,	Mrs	Tibbet,’	Sebastian	reminded	her,	‘and	I’ve	got	no	one	to	blame	but
myself.	However,	I	do	plan	to	visit	Eaton	Square	and	try	to	find	out	where	my	friend	Bruno	Martinez
lives.	He	should	be	back	from	school	by	Friday	afternoon.’
‘Good	idea,’	said	Mrs	Tibbet.	‘He’s	sure	to	know	if	you’ve	been	expelled	or	just	.	.	.	what	was	the
other	word?’
‘Rusticated,’	said	Sebastian,	as	Janice	came	bustling	back	into	the	kitchen	carrying	two	empty	plates;
the	most	sincere	praise	a	cook	can	ever	receive.	She	handed	them	to	Sebastian	before	picking	up	two
more	boiled	eggs.
‘Table	five,’	Mrs	Tibbet	reminded	her.
‘And	table	nine	want	more	cornflakes,’	said	Janice.
‘Then	pick	up	a	fresh	packet	from	the	pantry,	you	dozy	numskull.’
Sebastian	didn’t	finish	the	washing-up	until	just	after	ten.	‘What	next?’	he	asked.
‘Janice	hoovers	the	dining	room	and	then	lays	up	for	tomorrow’s	breakfast,	while	I	clean	the	kitchen.
Check	out	is	at	twelve,	and	once	the	guests	have	left,	we	change	the	sheets,	make	up	the	beds	and	water
the	window	boxes.’
‘So	what	would	you	like	me	to	do?’	said	Sebastian,	rolling	his	sleeves	back	down.
‘Take	a	bus	to	Eaton	Square	and	find	out	if	your	friend	is	expected	back	on	Friday.’	Sebastian	put	on
his	jacket.	‘But	not	before	you’ve	made	your	bed	and	checked	that	your	room	is	tidy.’
He	laughed.	‘You’re	beginning	to	sound	like	my	mother.’
‘I’ll	take	that	as	a	compliment.	Be	sure	you’re	back	before	one	o’clock,	because	I’m	expecting	some
Germans,	and	you	just	might	be	useful.’	Sebastian	headed	for	the	door.	‘You’ll	need	these,’	she	added,
handing	back	the	two	sixpenny	pieces.	‘That	is,	unless	you	intend	to	walk	to	Eaton	Square	and	back.’
‘Thank	you,	Mrs	Tibbet.’
‘Tibby.	As	you’re	clearly	going	to	be	a	regular.’
Sebastian	pocketed	the	money	and	kissed	her	on	both	cheeks,	which	silenced	Mrs	Tibbet	for	the	first
time.
He	left	the	kitchen	before	she	could	recover,	bounded	up	the	stairs,	made	his	bed	and	tidied	his	room
before	returning	to	the	hall,	where	he	checked	the	map.	He	was	surprised	to	find	that	Eaton	Square	was
spelt	differently	from	the	school	that	had	turned	down	his	uncle	Giles	for	some	misdemeanour	none	of	the
family	ever	talked	about.
Before	he	left,	Janice	told	him	to	catch	a	No.	36	bus,	get	off	at	Sloane	Square	and	walk	from	there.
The	first	thing	Sebastian	noticed	when	he	closed	the	guest	house	door	behind	him	was	how	manypeople	were	rushing	about	in	every	direction,	at	quite	a	different	pace	from	Bristolians.	He	joined	a
queue	at	the	bus	stop	and	watched	several	red	double-deckers	arrive	and	depart	before	one	displaying
No.	36	turned	up.	He	climbed	on	board,	walked	up	to	the	top	deck	and	took	a	seat	at	the	front	as	he
wanted	to	have	a	good	view	of	everything	that	was	going	on	below.
‘Where	to,	young	man?’	asked	the	bus	conductor.
‘Sloane	Square,’	said	Sebastian.	‘And	please	could	you	let	me	know	when	we	get	there?’
‘That’ll	be	tuppence.’
Sebastian	became	engrossed	by	all	the	sights	as	he	travelled	past	Marble	Arch,	down	Park	Lane	and
around	Hyde	Park	Corner,	but	tried	to	concentrate	on	what	he	would	do	once	he	arrived.	All	he	knew	was
that	Bruno	lived	in	Eaton	Square,	but	he	didn’t	know	the	number.	He	just	hoped	it	was	a	small	square.
‘Sloane	Square!’	shouted	the	conductor	as	the	bus	came	to	a	halt	outside	W.H.	Smith.
Sebastian	quickly	made	his	way	down	the	steps.	Once	he	was	on	the	pavement,	he	looked	around	for	a
landmark.	His	eyes	settled	on	the	Royal	Court	theatre,	where	Joan	Plowright	was	performing	in	The
Chairs.	He	checked	his	map,	walked	past	the	theatre	and	took	a	right,	estimating	that	Eaton	Square	was
only	a	couple	of	hundred	yards	away.
Once	he’d	reached	it,	he	slowed	down	in	the	hope	of	spotting	Don	Pedro’s	red	Rolls-Royce,	but	there
was	no	sign	of	the	car.	He	realized	that	unless	he	got	lucky	it	could	take	hours	for	him	to	find	out	where
Bruno	lived.
As	he	walked	along	the	pavement,	he	noticed	that	about	half	the	houses	had	been	converted	into	flats,
and	displayed	a	list	of	the	occupants’	names	by	their	doorbells.	The	other	half	were	houses	and	gave	no
indication	of	who	lived	there,	having	only	a	brass	knocker	or	a	bell	marked	‘Tradesmen’.	Sebastian	felt
sure	Bruno’s	father	wasn’t	the	kind	of	man	who	would	share	a	front	door	with	someone	else.
He	stood	on	the	top	step	of	No.	1	and	pressed	the	tradesmen’s	bell.	Moments	later	a	butler	appeared,
wearing	a	long	black	coat	and	white	tie,	which	reminded	him	of	Marsden	at	Barrington	Hall.
‘I’m	looking	for	a	Mr	Martinez,’	Sebastian	said	politely.
‘No	gentleman	of	that	name	resides	here,’	said	the	butler,	and	he	closed	the	door	before	Sebastian	had	a
chance	to	ask	if	he	had	any	idea	where	Mr	Martinez	did	live.
During	the	next	hour,	Sebastian	experienced	everything	from	‘He	doesn’t	live	here’	to	the	door	being
slammed	in	his	face.	It	was	towards	the	end	of	the	second	hour,	by	which	time	he’d	reached	the	far	side	of
the	square,	that	in	response	to	his	oft-repeated	question,	a	maid	asked,	‘Is	he	a	foreign	gentleman	who
drives	a	red	Rolls-Royce?’
‘Yes,	that’s	him,’	said	Sebastian	with	a	feeling	of	relief.
‘I	think	you’ll	find	he	lives	at	number	forty-four,	two	doors	down,’	said	the	maid,	pointing	to	her	right.
‘Thank	you	very	much,’	said	Sebastian.	He	walked	briskly	on	to	No.	44,	climbed	the	steps,	took	a	deep
breath	and	banged	twice	with	the	brass	knocker.
It	was	some	time	before	the	door	was	opened	and	Sebastian	was	greeted	by	a	heavily	built	man,	who
must	have	been	well	over	six	feet	tall	and	looked	more	like	a	boxer	than	a	butler.
‘What	do	you	want?’	he	asked	in	an	accent	Sebastian	didn’t	recognize.
‘I	wondered	if	this	is	where	Bruno	Martinez	lives?’
‘Who	wants	to	know?’
‘My	name	is	Sebastian	Clifton.’
The	man’s	tone	suddenly	changed.	‘Yes,	I’ve	heard	him	talk	about	you,	but	he’s	not	here.’
‘Do	you	know	when	he’s	expected	to	return?’
‘I	think	I	heard	Mr	Martinez	saying	he’d	be	home	on	Friday	afternoon.’
Sebastian	decided	not	to	ask	any	more	questions,	and	simply	said,	‘Thank	you.’	The	giant	gave	a	curt
nod,	and	slammed	the	door.	Or	was	he	just	closing	it?
Sebastian	began	running	towards	Sloane	Square	as	he	was	determined	to	be	back	in	time	to	help	MrsTibbet	with	her	German	guests.	He	took	the	first	bus	heading	in	the	direction	of	Paddington.	Once	he	was
back	at	No.	37	Praed	Street,	he	joined	Mrs	Tibbet	and	Janice	in	the	kitchen.
‘Did	you	have	any	luck,	Seb?’	she	asked	even	before	he’d	had	the	chance	to	sit	down.
‘I	managed	to	find	out	where	Bruno	lives,’	said	Sebastian	triumphantly,	‘and—’
‘Number	forty-four	Eaton	Square,’	said	Mrs	Tibbet	as	she	placed	a	plate	of	sausages	and	mash	in	front
of	him.
‘How	do	you	know	that?’
‘There’s	a	Martinez	listed	in	the	phone	directory,	but	you’d	already	gone	by	the	time	I	thought	of	that.
Did	you	discover	when	he’s	coming	home?’
‘Yes,	some	time	on	Friday	afternoon.’
‘Then	I’m	stuck	with	you	for	another	couple	of	days.’	Sebastian	looked	embarrassed	until	she	added,
‘Which	could	work	out	quite	well,	because	the	Germans	are	staying	until	Friday	afternoon,	so	you—’	A
firm	rap	on	the	door	interrupted	her	thoughts.	‘If	I’m	not	mistaken,	that	will	be	Mr	Kroll	and	his	friends.
Come	with	me,	Seb,	and	let’s	find	out	if	you	can	understand	a	word	they’re	saying.’
Sebastian	reluctantly	left	his	sausage	and	mash,	and	followed	Mrs	Tibbet.	He’d	caught	up	with	her	by
the	time	she	opened	the	front	door.
He	only	managed	to	catch	a	few	moments’	sleep	during	the	next	forty-eight	hours,	between	lugging
suitcases	up	and	down	the	stairs,	hailing	taxis,	serving	drinks	and,	most	important,	translating	a	myriad
questions,	from	‘Where	is	the	London	Palladium?’	to	‘Do	you	know	any	good	German	restaurants?’,	most
of	which	Mrs	Tibbet	was	able	to	answer	without	having	to	refer	to	a	map	or	guidebook.	On	the	Thursday
evening,	their	last	night,	Sebastian	blushed	when	he	was	asked	a	question	to	which	he	didn’t	know	the
answer.	Mrs	Tibbet	came	to	his	rescue.
‘Tell	them	they’ll	find	all	the	girls	they	need	at	the	Windmill	Theatre	in	Soho.’
The	Germans	bowed	low.
When	they	left	on	the	Friday	afternoon,	Herr	Kroll	gave	Sebastian	a	pound	and	shook	him	warmly	by
the	hand.	Sebastian	handed	the	money	to	Mrs	Tibbet,	but	she	refused	it,	saying,	‘It’s	yours.	You’ve	more
than	earned	it.’
‘But	I	still	haven’t	paid	for	my	board	and	lodging.	And	if	I	don’t,	my	grandmother,	who	used	to	be	the
manageress	of	the	Grand	Hotel	in	Bristol,	would	never	let	me	hear	the	end	of	it.’
Mrs	Tibbet	took	him	in	her	arms.	‘Good	luck,	Seb,’	she	said.	When	she	finally	let	him	go,	she	stood
back	and	added,	‘Take	your	trousers	off.’
Sebastian	looked	even	more	embarrassed	than	when	Herr	Kroll	had	asked	him	where	he	could	find	a
strip	joint.
‘I	need	to	iron	those,	if	you’re	not	going	to	look	as	if	you’ve	just	come	from	work.’31
‘I’ M	NOT	SURE 	if	he’s	in,’	said	a	man	Sebastian	could	never	forget.	‘But	I’ll	check.’
‘Seb!’	a	voice	echoed	down	the	marble	corridor.	‘It’s	so	good	to	see	you,	old	chap,’	Bruno	added	as	he
shook	hands	with	his	friend.	‘I	was	afraid	I	might	never	see	you	again,	if	the	rumours	were	true.’
‘What	rumours?’
‘Karl,	please	ask	Elena	to	serve	tea	in	the	drawing	room.’
Bruno	led	Sebastian	into	the	house.	At	Beechcroft,	Sebastian	had	always	taken	the	lead,	with	Bruno	his
willing	lieutenant.	Now	the	roles	were	reversed	as	the	guest	followed	his	host	down	a	corridor	and	into
the	drawing	room.	Sebastian	had	always	thought	he	had	been	brought	up	in	a	degree	of	comfort,	even
luxury,	but	what	greeted	him	when	he	entered	the	drawing	room	would	have	taken	minor	royalty	by
surprise.	The	paintings,	the	furniture,	even	the	carpets	wouldn’t	have	looked	out	of	place	in	a	museum.
‘What	rumours?’	repeated	Sebastian	nervously,	as	he	took	a	seat	on	the	edge	of	the	sofa.
‘I’ll	come	to	that	in	a	moment,’	said	Bruno.	‘But	first,	tell	me	why	you	left	so	suddenly?	One	minute	you
were	sitting	with	Vic	and	me	in	the	study,	and	the	next	you’d	disappeared.’
‘Didn’t	the	headmaster	say	anything	at	morning	assembly	the	next	day?’
‘Not	a	word,	which	only	added	to	the	mystery.	Everyone	had	a	theory	of	course,	but	as	both	the
housemaster	and	Banks-Williams	were	silent	as	the	grave,	no	one	knew	what	was	fact	and	what	was
fiction.	I	asked	Matron,	that	fount	of	all	knowledge,	but	she	clammed	up	whenever	your	name	was
mentioned.	Most	unlike	her.	Vic	feared	the	worst,	but	then	his	glass	is	always	half	empty.	He	was
convinced	you’d	been	expelled	and	that	was	the	last	we’d	hear	of	you,	but	I	told	him	we’d	all	meet	up
again	at	Cambridge.’
‘I’m	afraid	not,’	said	Sebastian.	‘Vic	was	right.’	He	then	told	his	friend	everything	that	had	happened
since	his	interview	with	the	headmaster	earlier	in	the	week,	leaving	Bruno	in	no	doubt	how	devastated	he
was	to	have	lost	his	place	at	Cambridge.
When	he	came	to	the	end	of	his	story,	Bruno	said,	‘So	that’s	why	Hilly-Billy	called	me	to	his	study	after
assembly	on	Wednesday	morning.’
‘What	punishment	did	you	get?’
‘Six	of	the	best,	my	prefect	status	removed,	plus	a	warning	that	any	further	indiscretions	and	I’d	be
rusticated.’
‘I	might	have	got	away	with	just	being	rusticated,’	said	Sebastian,	‘if	Hilly-Billy	hadn’t	caught	me
smoking	on	the	train	to	London.’
‘Why	go	to	London	when	you	had	a	ticket	for	Bristol?’
‘I	was	going	to	hang	around	here	until	Friday,	and	then	go	home	on	the	last	day	of	term.	Ma	and	Pa
aren’t	due	back	from	the	States	until	tomorrow,	so	I	figured	they’d	be	none	the	wiser.	If	I	hadn’t	bumped
into	Hilly-Billy	on	the	train,	I	would	have	got	away	with	it.’‘But	if	you	take	the	train	to	Bristol	today,	they	still	won’t	be	any	the	wiser.’
‘No	chance,’	said	Sebastian.	‘Don’t	forget	what	Hilly-Billy	said.	“School	rules	will	still	apply	to	you
until	the	last	day	of	term,”	he	mimicked,	clinging	on	to	the	lapels	of	his	jacket.	“Should	you	break	even
one	of	them,	I	will	not	hesitate	to	reconsider	my	position	concerning	your	place	at	Cambridge.	Is	that
understood?”	Within	an	hour	of	being	booted	out	of	his	office,	I’d	broken	three	rules,	right	under	his
nose!’
A	maid	entered	the	room	carrying	a	large	silver	tray	weighed	down	with	food	that	neither	of	them	had
ever	experienced	at	Beechcroft.
Bruno	buttered	a	hot	muffin.	‘As	soon	as	we’ve	had	tea,	why	don’t	you	go	back	to	the	guest	house	and
pick	up	your	things.	You	can	stay	here	tonight,	and	we’ll	try	and	work	out	what	you	should	do	next.’
‘But	how	will	your	pa	feel	about	that?’
‘On	the	way	here	from	school,	I	told	him	I	wouldn’t	be	going	up	to	Cambridge	in	September	if	it	hadn’t
been	for	you	taking	the	blame.	He	said	I	was	lucky	to	have	such	a	friend,	and	he’d	like	the	chance	to	thank
you	personally.’
‘If	Banks-Williams	had	seen	you	first,	Bruno,	you	would	have	done	exactly	the	same	thing.’
‘That’s	not	the	point,	Seb.	He	saw	you	first,	so	I	got	away	with	a	thrashing	and	Vic	escaped	scot	free,
and	only	just	in	time,	because	Vic	had	been	hoping	to	get	to	know	Ruby	more	intimately.’
‘Ruby,’	repeated	Sebastian.	‘Did	you	find	out	what	happened	to	her?’
‘She	disappeared	on	the	same	day	as	you.	Cook	told	me	we	wouldn’t	be	seeing	her	again.’
‘And	you	still	think	I	have	a	chance	of	going	to	Cambridge?’
Both	boys	fell	silent.
‘Elena,’	said	Bruno	when	the	maid	returned,	carrying	a	large	fruitcake,	‘my	friend	will	be	returning	to
Paddington	to	pick	up	his	things.	Would	you	ask	the	chauffeur	to	drive	him,	and	have	a	guest	room
prepared	by	the	time	he	gets	back?’
‘I’m	afraid	the	chauffeur	has	just	left	to	pick	up	your	father	from	the	office.	I’m	not	expecting	them	back
before	dinner.’
‘Then	you’ll	have	to	take	a	taxi,’	said	Bruno.	‘But	not	until	you’ve	sampled	cook’s	fruitcake.’
‘I’ve	barely	enough	money	for	a	bus,	let	alone	a	taxi,’	whispered	Sebastian.
‘I’ll	book	you	one	and	put	it	on	my	father’s	account,’	said	Bruno	as	he	picked	up	the	cake	knife.
‘That’s	wonderful	news,’	said	Mrs	Tibbet,	once	Sebastian	had	told	her	everything	that	had	happened	that
afternoon.	‘But	I	still	think	you	should	phone	your	parents	and	let	them	know	where	you	are.	After	all,	you
still	can’t	be	certain	you’ve	lost	your	place	at	Cambridge.’
‘Ruby’s	been	sacked,	my	housemaster	refuses	to	discuss	the	subject,	even	Matron,	who	is	never	short
of	an	opinion,	wouldn’t	say	a	word.	I	can	promise	you,	Mrs	Tibbet,	I	won’t	be	going	up	to	Cambridge.	In
any	case,	my	parents	aren’t	back	from	America	until	tomorrow,	so	I	couldn’t	get	in	touch	with	them	even
if	I	wanted	to.’
Mrs	Tibbet	kept	her	counsel.	‘Well,	if	you’re	leaving,’	she	said,	‘you’d	better	go	and	pack	your	things
because	I	could	use	the	room.	I’ve	already	had	to	turn	away	three	customers.’
‘I’ll	be	as	quick	as	I	can.’	Sebastian	left	the	kitchen	and	ran	back	up	the	stairs	to	his	room.	Once	he’d
packed	and	tidied	up,	he	returned	to	find	Mrs	Tibbet	and	Janice	standing	in	the	hall	waiting	for	him.
‘It’s	been	a	memorable	week,	quite	memorable,’	said	Mrs	Tibbet	as	she	opened	the	front	door,	‘and	one
Janice	and	me	are	unlikely	to	forget.’
‘When	I	write	my	memoirs,	Tibby,	you’ll	get	a	whole	chapter,’	Sebastian	said	as	they	walked	out	on	to
the	pavement	together.‘You’ll	have	forgotten	us	both	long	before	then,’	she	said	wistfully.
‘Not	a	hope.	This	will	become	my	second	home,	you’ll	see.’	Sebastian	planted	a	kiss	on	Janice’s
cheek,	before	giving	Tibby	a	long	hug.	‘You’re	not	going	to	get	rid	of	me	quite	that	easily,’	he	added	as	he
climbed	back	into	the	waiting	taxi.
Mrs	Tibbet	and	Janice	waved	as	the	cab	began	its	journey	back	to	Eaton	Square.	Tibby	had	wanted	to
tell	him	one	more	time,	for	heaven’s	sake	ring	your	mother	the	minute	she	gets	back	from	America,	but	she
knew	it	would	be	pointless.
‘Janice,	go	and	change	the	sheets	in	number	seven,’	she	said	as	the	taxi	turned	right	at	the	end	of	the
road	and	disappeared	out	of	sight.	Mrs	Tibbet	quickly	returned	to	the	house.	If	Seb	wouldn’t	get	in	touch
with	his	mother,	she	would.
That	evening,	Bruno’s	father	took	the	boys	to	the	Ritz	for	dinner;	more	champagne,	and	Sebastian’s	first
experience	of	oysters.	Don	Pedro,	as	he	insisted	Sebastian	call	him,	thanked	him	again	and	again	for
shouldering	the	blame	and	making	it	possible	for	Bruno	still	to	go	to	Cambridge.	‘So	British,’	he	kept
repeating.
Bruno	sat	silently	picking	at	his	food,	rarely	joining	in	the	conversation.	All	his	confidence	of	the
afternoon	seemed	to	have	evaporated	in	the	presence	of	his	father.	But	the	biggest	surprise	of	the	evening
came	when	Don	Pedro	revealed	that	Bruno	had	two	older	brothers,	Diego	and	Luis,	something	he’d	never
mentioned	before,	and	they’d	certainly	never	visited	him	at	Beechcroft	Abbey.	Sebastian	wanted	to	ask
why,	but	as	his	friend	kept	his	head	bowed,	he	decided	he’d	wait	until	they	were	alone.
‘They	work	alongside	me	in	the	family	business,’	said	Don	Pedro.
‘And	what	is	the	family	business?’	asked	Sebastian	innocently.
‘Import	and	export,’	said	Don	Pedro	without	going	into	detail.
Don	Pedro	offered	his	young	guest	his	first	Cuban	cigar,	and	asked	what	he	planned	to	do	now	he
wouldn’t	be	going	to	Cambridge.	Sebastian	admitted	between	coughs,	‘I	suppose	I’ll	have	to	look	for	a
job.’
‘Would	you	like	to	earn	yourself	a	hundred	pounds	cash?	There’s	something	you	could	do	for	me	in
Buenos	Aires,	and	you’d	be	back	in	England	by	the	end	of	the	month.’
‘Thank	you,	sir,	that’s	most	generous.	But	what	would	I	be	expected	to	do	for	such	a	large	sum	of
money?’
‘Come	to	Buenos	Aires	with	me	next	Monday,	stay	for	a	few	days	as	my	guest,	then	take	a	package	back
to	Southampton	on	the	Queen	Mary.’
‘But	why	me?	Surely	one	of	your	staff	could	carry	out	such	a	simple	task?’
‘Because	the	package	contains	a	family	heirloom,’	said	Don	Pedro	without	missing	a	beat,	‘and	I	need
someone	who	speaks	both	Spanish	and	English,	and	can	be	trusted.	The	way	you	conducted	yourself	when
Bruno	was	in	trouble	convinces	me	that	you’re	the	right	man	–’	and	looking	at	Bruno,	he	added,	‘and
perhaps	this	is	my	way	of	saying	thank	you.’
‘That’s	kind	of	you,	sir,’	said	Sebastian,	not	able	to	believe	his	luck.
‘Let	me	give	you	ten	pounds	in	advance,’	Don	Pedro	said,	taking	a	wallet	out	of	his	pocket.	‘You’ll	get
the	other	ninety	on	the	day	you	sail	back	to	England.’	He	removed	two	five-pound	notes	from	his	wallet
and	pushed	them	across	the	table.	It	was	more	money	than	Sebastian	had	been	given	in	his	life.	‘Why
don’t	you	and	Bruno	enjoy	yourselves	this	weekend?	After	all,	you’ve	earned	it.’
Bruno	said	nothing.As	soon	as	the	last	guest	had	been	served,	Mrs	Tibbet	instructed	Janice	to	hoover	the	dining	room	and	lay
up	for	tomorrow’s	breakfast,	but	not	until	she’d	finished	the	washing-up,	as	if	she’d	never	given	the	order
before.	Then	Mrs	Tibbet	disappeared	upstairs.	Janice	assumed	she	was	going	to	her	office	to	prepare	the
morning	shopping	list,	but	instead	she	just	sat	at	her	desk	staring	at	the	phone.	She	poured	herself	a	glass
of	whisky,	something	she	rarely	did	before	her	last	guest	had	gone	to	bed,	took	a	gulp	and	picked	up	the
receiver.
‘Directory	enquiries,’	she	said,	and	waited	until	another	voice	came	on	the	line.
‘What	name?’	asked	the	voice.
‘Mr	Harry	Clifton,’	she	replied.
‘And	which	city?’
‘Bristol.’
‘And	the	address?’
‘I	don’t	have	it,	but	he’s	a	famous	author,’	said	Mrs	Tibbet,	trying	to	sound	as	if	she	knew	him.	She
waited	for	some	time	and	began	to	wonder	if	she’d	been	cut	off,	until	the	voice	said,	‘That	subscriber’s
number	is	ex-directory,	madam,	so	I’m	afraid	I’m	unable	to	put	you	through.’
‘But	this	is	an	emergency.’
‘I’m	sorry,	madam,	but	I	couldn’t	put	you	through	if	you	were	the	Queen	of	England.’
Mrs	Tibbet	put	down	the	phone.	She	sat	for	some	time	wondering	if	there	was	any	other	way	of	getting
in	touch	with	Mrs	Clifton.	Then	she	thought	of	Janice,	and	returned	to	the	kitchen.
‘Where	do	you	buy	those	paperbacks	you’ve	always	got	your	head	in?’	she	asked	Janice.
‘At	the	station,	on	my	way	in	to	work,’	Janice	replied	as	she	continued	with	the	washing-up.	Mrs	Tibbet
cleaned	the	Aga	while	she	thought	about	Janice’s	reply.	Once	she’d	completed	the	job	to	her	satisfaction,
she	took	off	her	apron,	folded	it	neatly,	picked	up	her	shopping	basket	and	announced,	‘I’m	off	to	the
shops.’
After	leaving	the	guest	house,	she	didn’t	turn	right	as	she	did	every	other	morning,	when	she	would
head	for	the	butcher	in	search	of	the	finest	slices	of	Danish	bacon,	the	greengrocer	for	the	freshest	fruit,
and	the	baker	for	the	warmest	loaves	as	they	were	taken	from	the	oven,	and	even	then	she	would	only	buy
them	if	the	price	was	sensible.	But	not	today.	Today	she	turned	left	and	walked	towards	Paddington
Station.
She	kept	a	firm	grip	on	her	purse,	as	she’d	been	told	once	too	often	by	disillusioned	guests	that	they’d
been	robbed	within	moments	of	setting	foot	in	London	–	Sebastian	being	the	latest	example.	The	boy	was
so	mature	for	his	age,	and	yet	still	so	naïve.
Mrs	Tibbet	felt	unusually	nervous	as	she	crossed	the	road	and	joined	the	bustling	crowd	of	commuters
making	their	way	into	the	station.	Perhaps	it	was	because	she’d	never	been	inside	a	bookshop	before.	She
hadn’t	had	much	time	to	read	since	her	husband	and	baby	son	had	been	killed	fifteen	years	ago	in	a
bombing	raid	on	the	East	End.	If	the	child	had	lived,	he	would	have	been	about	the	same	age	as	Sebastian.
Without	a	roof	to	cover	her	head,	Tibby	had	migrated	west,	like	a	bird	that	needs	to	find	new	feeding
grounds.	She	took	a	job	at	the	Safe	Haven	guest	house	as	a	general	dogsbody.	Three	years	later	she
became	the	waitress,	and	when	the	owner	died,	she	didn’t	so	much	inherit	the	guest	house	as	take	it	on,
since	the	bank	was	looking	for	someone,	anyone,	to	pay	the	mortgage.
She	nearly	went	under,	but	in	1951	she	was	rescued	by	the	Festival	of	Britain,	which	attracted	a	million
extra	visitors	to	London,	making	it	possible	for	the	guest	house	to	show	a	profit	for	the	first	time.	That
profit	had	increased	every	year,	if	only	by	a	small	margin,	and	now	the	mortgage	had	been	paid	off	and	the
business	was	hers.	She	relied	on	her	regulars	to	get	her	through	the	winter,	as	she	had	learned	early	on
that	those	who	rely	solely	on	passing	trade	soon	have	to	close	their	doors.
Mrs	Tibbet	snapped	out	of	her	daydream	and	looked	around	the	station	until	her	eyes	settled	on	a	W.H.
Smith	sign.	She	watched	as	seasoned	travellers	dashed	in	and	out.	Most	only	bought	a	morning	paper	for	ahalfpenny,	but	others	at	the	back	of	the	shop	were	browsing	among	the	bookshelves.
She	ventured	in	but	then	stood	helplessly	in	the	middle	of	the	shop,	getting	in	the	customers’	way.	When
she	spotted	a	woman	at	the	back	stacking	books	on	to	the	shelves	from	a	wooden	trolley,	she	walked	over
to	her,	but	didn’t	interrupt	her	work.
The	assistant	looked	up.	‘Can	I	help	you,	madam?’	she	asked	politely.
‘Have	you	heard	of	an	author	called	Harry	Clifton?’
‘Oh	yes,’	the	assistant	replied.	‘He’s	one	of	our	most	popular	authors.	Was	there	a	particular	title	you
were	looking	for?’	Mrs	Tibbet	shook	her	head.	‘Then	let’s	go	and	see	what	we	have	in	stock.’	The
assistant	walked	to	the	other	side	of	the	shop,	with	Mrs	Tibbet	following	in	her	wake,	stopping	when	she
reached	a	section	labelled	CRIME.	The	William	Warwick	Mysteries	were	stacked	in	a	neat	row,	with
several	gaps	confirming	how	popular	the	author	was.	‘And	of	course,’	continued	the	assistant,	‘there	are
the	prison	diaries,	and	a	biography	by	Lord	Preston,	called	The	Hereditary	Principle,	which	is	about	the
fascinating	Clifton-Barrington	inheritance	case.	Perhaps	you	remember	it?	It	dominated	the	headlines	for
weeks.’
‘Which	of	Mr	Clifton’s	novels	would	you	recommend?’
‘Whenever	I’m	asked	that	question	about	any	author,’	replied	the	assistant,	‘I	always	suggest,	start	with
the	first.’	She	took	a	copy	of	William	Warwick	and	the	Case	of	the	Blind	Witness	from	the	shelf.
‘Will	the	other	one,	the	hereditary	one,	tell	me	more	about	the	Clifton	family?’
‘Yes,	and	you’ll	find	it	as	gripping	as	any	novel,’	the	assistant	said	as	she	walked	over	to	the	biography
section.	‘That	will	be	three	shillings,	madam,’	she	said,	handing	her	both	books.
When	Mrs	Tibbet	returned	to	the	guest	house	just	before	lunch,	Janice	was	surprised	to	see	that	her
shopping	basket	was	empty,	and	even	more	surprised	when	she	locked	herself	into	the	office,	only	coming
out	when	a	knock	on	the	front	door	announced	a	prospective	customer.
It	took	her	two	days	and	two	nights	to	read	The	Hereditary	Principle	by	Reg	Preston,	by	which	time
Mrs	Tibbet	realized	she	was	going	to	have	to	visit	another	place	she	had	never	entered	before,	and	it
would	be	far	more	nerve-racking	than	a	bookshop.
Sebastian	came	down	to	breakfast	early	on	Monday	morning,	as	he	wanted	to	have	a	word	with	Bruno’s
father	before	he	left	for	work.
‘Good	morning,	sir,’	he	said	as	he	took	a	seat	at	the	breakfast	table.
‘Good	morning,	Sebastian,’	said	Don	Pedro,	putting	down	his	newspaper.	‘So,	have	you	made	up	your
mind	if	you’re	going	to	come	to	Buenos	Aires	with	me?’
‘Yes,	I	have,	sir.	I’d	love	to	come,	if	I	haven’t	left	it	too	late.’
‘That	won’t	be	a	problem,’	said	Don	Pedro.	‘Just	be	sure	you’re	ready	by	the	time	I	return.’
‘What	time	will	we	be	leaving,	sir?’
‘Around	five	o’clock.’
‘I’ll	be	ready	and	waiting,’	said	Sebastian	as	Bruno	came	into	the	room.
‘You	will	be	pleased	to	hear	that	Sebastian	will	be	travelling	to	Buenos	Aires	with	me,’	said	Don
Pedro	as	his	son	sat	down.	‘He’ll	be	back	in	London	by	the	end	of	the	month.	Make	sure	you	take	care	of
him	when	he	returns.’
Bruno	was	about	to	comment	when	Elena	came	in	and	placed	a	rack	of	toast	in	the	centre	of	the	table.
‘What	would	you	like	for	breakfast,	sir?’	she	asked	Bruno.
‘Two	boiled	eggs,	please.’
‘Me	too,’	said	Sebastian.
‘I	must	go,’	said	Don	Pedro,	as	he	rose	from	his	place	at	the	head	of	the	table.	‘I	have	an	appointment	inBond	Street.’	He	turned	to	Sebastian	and	added,	‘Be	sure	you’re	packed	and	ready	to	leave	by	five
o’clock.	We	can’t	afford	to	miss	the	tide.’
‘I	can’t	wait,	sir,’	said	Sebastian,	sounding	genuinely	excited.
‘Have	a	good	day,	Papa,’	said	Bruno	as	his	father	left	the	room.	He	didn’t	speak	again	until	he	heard
the	front	door	close,	when	he	looked	across	the	table	and	said	to	his	friend,	‘Are	you	certain	you’re
making	the	right	decision?’
Mrs	Tibbet	couldn’t	stop	shaking.	She	wasn’t	convinced	she	could	go	through	with	it.	When	the	guests	sat
down	for	breakfast	that	morning,	they	were	served	with	hard-boiled	eggs,	burnt	toast	and	lukewarm	tea,
and	it	was	Janice	who	ended	up	taking	the	blame.	It	didn’t	help	that	Mrs	Tibbet	hadn’t	done	any	shopping
for	the	past	two	days,	so	the	bread	was	stale,	the	fruit	was	over-ripe	and	they’d	run	out	of	bacon.	Janice
was	relieved	when	the	last	disgruntled	guest	filed	out	of	the	breakfast	room.	One	even	refused	to	pay	the
bill.
She	went	down	to	the	kitchen	to	see	if	Mrs	Tibbet	was	feeling	poorly,	but	there	was	no	sign	of	her.
Janice	wondered	where	she	could	possibly	be.
Mrs	Tibbet	was	in	fact	on	a	No.	148	bus	heading	down	Whitehall.	She	still	didn’t	know	if	she	could	go
through	with	it.	Even	if	he	did	agree	to	see	her,	what	would	she	say	to	him?	After	all,	what	business	was	it
of	hers?	She	became	so	preoccupied	that	the	bus	had	crossed	Westminster	Bridge	before	she	got	off.	She
took	her	time	walking	back	across	the	Thames,	and	not	because,	like	the	tourists,	she	was	admiring	the
views	up	and	down	the	river.
She	changed	her	mind	several	times	before	she	reached	Parliament	Square,	where	her	pace	became
slower	and	slower	until	she	finally	came	to	a	halt	outside	the	entrance	to	the	House	of	Commons,	when,
like	Lot’s	wife,	she	turned	to	salt.
The	senior	doorkeeper,	used	to	dealing	with	people	who	were	overawed	by	their	first	visit	to	the
Palace	of	Westminster,	smiled	at	the	frozen	statue	and	asked,	‘May	I	help,	madam?’
‘Is	this	where	I	come	to	see	an	MP?’
‘Do	you	have	an	appointment?’
‘No,	I	don’t,’	said	Mrs	Tibbet,	hoping	she	would	be	turned	away.
‘Don’t	worry,	not	many	people	do.	You’ll	just	have	to	hope	he’s	in	the	House,	and	free	to	see	you.	If
you’d	like	to	join	the	queue,	one	of	my	colleagues	will	assist	you.’
Mrs	Tibbet	walked	up	the	steps,	past	Westminster	Hall,	and	joined	a	long,	silent	queue.	By	the	time	she
reached	the	front	over	an	hour	later,	she	remembered	she	hadn’t	told	Janice	where	she	was	going.
She	was	escorted	into	the	Central	Lobby,	where	an	official	ushered	her	across	to	the	reception	desk.
‘Good	afternoon,	madam,’	said	the	duty	clerk.	‘Which	Member	were	you	hoping	to	see?’
‘Sir	Giles	Barrington.’
‘Are	you	a	constituent	of	his,	madam?’
Another	chance	to	escape,	was	her	first	thought.	‘No.	I	need	to	speak	to	him	concerning	a	personal
matter.’
‘I	understand,’	said	the	clerk,	as	if	nothing	would	surprise	him.	‘If	you’ll	give	me	your	name,	I’ll	fill	in
a	visitor’s	card.’
‘Mrs	Florence	Tibbet.’
‘And	your	address?’
‘Thirty-seven	Praed	Street,	Paddington.’
‘And	what	is	it	you	wish	to	discuss	with	Sir	Giles?’
‘It’s	about	his	nephew,	Sebastian	Clifton.’The	clerk	completed	the	card	and	handed	it	to	a	badge	messenger.
‘How	long	will	I	have	to	wait?’	she	asked.
‘Members	usually	respond	fairly	quickly	if	they’re	in	the	House.	But	perhaps	you’d	like	to	have	a	seat
while	you’re	waiting,’	he	said,	pointing	to	the	green	benches	that	circled	the	walls	of	Central	Lobby.
The	badge	messenger	marched	down	the	long	corridor	to	the	Lower	House.	When	he	entered	the
members’	lobby	he	handed	the	card	to	one	of	his	colleagues,	who	in	turn	took	it	into	the	chamber.	The
house	was	packed	with	members	who	had	come	to	hear	Peter	Thorneycroft,	the	Chancellor	of	the
Exchequer,	announce	that	petrol	rationing	would	be	lifted	following	the	end	of	the	Suez	Crisis.
The	messenger	spotted	Sir	Giles	Barrington	seated	in	his	usual	place	and	handed	the	card	to	a	member
at	the	end	of	the	third	row,	from	where	it	began	its	slow	progress	along	the	packed	bench,	each	member
checking	the	name	and	then	passing	it	down	the	line,	until	it	finally	reached	Sir	Giles.
The	Member	for	Bristol	Docklands	stuffed	the	card	in	a	pocket	as	he	leapt	to	his	feet	the	moment	the
foreign	secretary	had	dealt	with	the	previous	question,	in	the	hope	of	catching	the	speaker’s	eye.
‘Sir	Giles	Barrington,’	called	the	speaker.
‘Can	the	foreign	secretary	tell	the	House	how	the	president’s	announcement	will	affect	British	industry,
in	particular	those	of	our	citizens	who	work	in	the	defence	field?’
Mr	Selwyn	Lloyd	once	again	rose	to	his	feet	and,	clutching	the	dispatch	box,	said,	‘I	can	tell	the
honourable	and	gallant	gentleman	that	I	am	in	constant	touch	with	our	ambassador	in	Washington,	and	he
assures	me	.	.	.’
By	the	time	Mr	Lloyd	had	answered	the	final	question	some	forty	minutes	later,	Giles	had	quite
forgotten	about	his	visitor’s	card.
It	was	about	an	hour	later,	when	he	was	sitting	in	the	tearoom	with	some	colleagues,	that	he	pulled	out
his	wallet	and	the	card	fell	to	the	floor.	He	picked	it	up	and	glanced	at	the	name,	but	couldn’t	place	a	Mrs
Tibbet.	He	turned	it	over	and	read	the	message,	shot	out	of	his	seat,	bolted	out	of	the	tearoom	and	didn’t
stop	running	until	he	had	reached	Central	Lobby,	praying	that	she	hadn’t	given	up	on	him.	When	he
stopped	at	the	duty	clerk’s	desk,	he	asked	him	to	page	a	Mrs	Tibbet.
‘I’m	sorry,	Sir	Giles,	but	the	lady	left	a	few	moments	ago.	Said	she	had	to	get	back	to	work.’
‘Damn,’	said	Giles,	as	he	turned	the	card	over	and	checked	the	address.32
‘P RAED 	S TREET, 	P ADDINGTON ,’	said	Giles	as	he	climbed	into	a	taxi	outside	the	members’	entrance.	‘And
I’m	already	late,’	he	added,	‘so	step	on	it.’
‘Wouldn’t	want	me	to	break	the	speed	limit,	would	you,	guv,’	said	the	cabbie	as	he	drove	out	of	the
main	gates	and	nosed	his	way	into	Parliament	Square.
Yes	I	would,	Giles	wanted	to	say,	but	he	held	his	tongue.	Once	he	learned	Mrs	Tibbet	had	left	the
Commons,	he	had	rung	his	brother-in-law	to	tell	him	about	the	stranger’s	cryptic	message.	Harry’s	first
reaction	was	to	want	to	jump	on	the	next	train	to	London,	but	Giles	advised	him	against	it,	in	case	it	turned
out	to	be	a	false	alarm.	In	any	case,	Giles	told	him,	it	was	just	possible	that	Sebastian	was	on	his	way
back	to	Bristol.
Giles	sat	on	the	edge	of	his	seat,	willing	every	traffic	light	to	turn	green,	and	urging	the	driver	to	change
lanes	whenever	he	saw	a	chance	to	grab	a	few	yards.	He	couldn’t	stop	thinking	about	what	Harry	and
Emma	must	have	been	through	during	the	past	two	days.	Had	they	told	Jessica?	If	so,	she’d	be	sitting	on
the	top	step	at	the	Manor	House	waiting	anxiously	for	Sebastian	to	return.
As	the	taxi	pulled	up	outside	No.	37,	the	cabbie	couldn’t	help	wondering	why	a	Member	of	Parliament
could	possibly	be	visiting	a	guest	house	in	Paddington.	But	it	was	none	of	his	business,	especially	as	the
gentleman	gave	him	such	a	large	tip.
Giles	leapt	out	of	the	taxi,	ran	to	the	door	and	hammered	several	times	on	the	knocker.	A	few	moments
later,	the	door	was	opened	by	a	young	woman	who	said,	‘I’m	sorry,	sir,	but	the	last	room	has	been	taken.’
‘I’m	not	looking	for	a	room,’	Giles	told	her.	‘I	was	hoping	to	see	–’	he	glanced	once	again	at	the
visitor’s	card	–	‘a	Mrs	Tibbet.’
‘Who	shall	I	say	wants	to	see	her?’
‘Sir	Giles	Barrington.’
‘If	you’ll	just	wait	there,	sir,	I’ll	let	her	know,’	she	said	before	closing	the	door.
Giles	stood	on	the	pavement,	wondering	if	Sebastian	had	been	just	a	hundred	yards	from	Paddington
Station	the	whole	time.	He	only	had	to	wait	a	couple	of	minutes	before	the	door	was	flung	open	again.
‘I’m	so	sorry,	Sir	Giles,’	said	Mrs	Tibbet,	sounding	flustered.	‘Janice	had	no	idea	who	you	are.	Please
come	through	to	the	parlour.’
Once	Giles	had	settled	into	a	comfortable	high-backed	chair,	Mrs	Tibbet	offered	him	a	cup	of	tea.
‘No,	thank	you,’	he	said.	‘I’m	anxious	to	find	out	if	you	have	any	news	about	Seb.	His	parents	are
worried	out	of	their	minds.’
‘Of	course	they	are,	poor	things,’	said	Mrs	Tibbet.	‘I	did	tell	him	several	times	that	he	should	get	in
touch	with	his	mother,	but—’
‘But?’	interrupted	Giles.
‘It’s	a	long	story,	Sir	Giles,	but	I’ll	be	as	quick	as	I	can.’Ten	minutes	later,	Mrs	Tibbet	was	telling	him	that	the	last	time	she’d	seen	Sebastian	was	when	he	left
in	a	taxi	to	return	to	Eaton	Square,	and	she	hadn’t	heard	from	him	since.
‘So	as	far	as	you	know,	he’s	staying	with	his	friend	Bruno	Martinez	at	forty-four	Eaton	Square?’
‘That’s	right,	Sir	Giles.	But	I	did—’
‘I	am	greatly	in	your	debt,’	said	Giles,	rising	from	his	seat	and	taking	out	his	wallet.
‘You	owe	me	nothing,	sir,’	said	Mrs	Tibbet,	waving	a	hand.	‘Everything	I	did	was	for	Sebastian,	not	for
you.	But	if	I	may	be	allowed	to	give	you	one	piece	of	advice	.	.	.’
‘Yes,	of	course,’	said	Giles,	sitting	back	down.
‘Sebastian	is	anxious	that	his	parents	will	be	angry	with	him	because	he’s	thrown	away	the	chance	of
going	to	Cambridge,	and—’
‘But	he	hasn’t	lost	his	place	at	Cambridge,’	interrupted	Giles.
‘That’s	the	best	news	I’ve	heard	all	week.	You’d	better	find	him	quickly	and	let	him	know	that,	because
he	won’t	want	to	go	home	while	he	thinks	his	parents	are	still	angry	with	him.’
‘My	next	stop	will	be	number	forty-four	Eaton	Square,’	said	Giles	as	he	rose	a	second	time.
‘Before	you	go,’	said	Mrs	Tibbet,	still	not	budging,	‘you	should	know	that	he	took	the	blame	for	his
friend,	which	is	why	Bruno	Martinez	didn’t	suffer	the	same	punishment.	So	perhaps	he	deserves	a	pat	on
the	back	rather	than	a	telling	off.’
‘You’re	wasted,	Mrs	Tibbet	–	you	should	have	joined	the	diplomatic	corps.’
‘And	you’re	an	old	flatterer,	Sir	Giles,	like	most	members	of	parliament.	Not	that	I’ve	ever	come
across	one	before,’	she	admitted.	‘But	don’t	let	me	hold	you	up	any	longer.’
‘Thank	you	again.	Once	I’ve	caught	up	with	Sebastian	and	sorted	things	out,’	said	Giles	as	he	rose	a
third	time,	‘perhaps	you’ll	come	back	to	the	Commons	and	join	us	both	for	tea?’
‘That’s	most	considerate	of	you,	Sir	Giles.	But	I	can’t	afford	to	take	two	days	off	in	one	week.’
‘Then	it	will	have	to	be	next	week,’	said	Giles	as	she	opened	the	front	door	and	they	walked	out	on	to
the	pavement.	‘I’ll	send	a	car	to	pick	you	up.’
‘That’s	kind	of	you,’	said	Mrs	Tibbet,	‘but—’
‘No	buts.	Sebastian	got	lucky,	very	lucky,	when	he	stopped	at	number	thirty-seven.’
When	the	phone	rang	Don	Pedro	walked	across	the	room,	but	he	didn’t	pick	it	up	until	he’d	checked	his
study	door	was	closed.
‘Your	international	call	from	Buenos	Aires	is	on	the	line,	sir.’
He	heard	a	click,	before	a	voice	said,	‘It’s	Diego.’
‘Listen	carefully.	Everything	has	fallen	into	place,	including	our	Trojan	horse.’
‘Does	that	mean	Sotheby’s	have	agreed	to—?’
‘The	sculpture	will	be	included	in	their	sale	at	the	end	of	this	month.’
‘So	all	we	need	now	is	a	courier.’
‘I	think	I	have	the	ideal	person.	A	school	friend	of	Bruno’s	who	needs	a	job	and	speaks	fluent	Spanish.
Better	still,	his	uncle	is	a	Member	of	Parliament	and	one	of	his	grandfathers	was	a	lord,	so	he’s	what	the
English	consider	blue	blood,	which	can	only	smooth	the	way.’
‘Does	he	know	why	you	picked	him?’
‘No.	That’s	best	kept	secret,’	said	Don	Pedro,	‘which	will	allow	us	to	remain	at	arm’s	length	for	the
whole	exercise.’
‘When	does	he	arrive	in	Buenos	Aires?’
‘He’ll	be	joining	me	on	the	ship	this	evening,	and	he	will	be	safely	back	in	England	long	before	anyone
works	out	what	we	were	up	to.’‘Do	you	think	he’s	old	enough	to	carry	out	such	an	important	job?’
‘The	boy’s	older	than	his	years	and,	as	important,	he’s	a	bit	of	a	risk-taker.’
‘Sounds	ideal.	And	have	you	put	Bruno	in	the	picture?’
‘No.	The	less	he	knows,	the	better.’
‘Agreed,’	said	Diego.	‘Is	there	anything	else	you	want	me	to	do	before	you	arrive?’
‘Just	make	sure	the	cargo	is	ready	for	loading	and	is	booked	on	to	the	Queen	Mary	for	its	return
journey.’
‘And	the	bank	notes?’
Don	Pedro’s	thoughts	were	interrupted	by	a	gentle	knock	on	the	door.	He	turned	to	see	Sebastian
entering	the	room.
‘I	hope	I’m	not	interrupting	you,	sir.’
‘No,	no,’	said	Don	Pedro,	replacing	the	receiver	and	smiling	at	the	young	man	who	had	become	the	last
piece	in	the	jigsaw.
Giles	thought	about	stopping	at	the	nearest	phone	box	so	he	could	ring	Harry	and	let	him	know	that	he’d
tracked	Sebastian	down	and	was	on	the	way	to	collect	him,	but	he	wanted	to	see	the	boy	face	to	face
before	he	made	that	call.
The	Park	Lane	traffic	was	bumper	to	bumper,	and	the	cabbie	showed	no	interest	in	slipping	into	gaps,
let	alone	running	amber	lights.	He	took	a	deep	breath.	What	difference	would	a	few	minutes	make,	he
thought	as	they	circled	Hyde	Park	Corner.
The	taxi	finally	drew	up	outside	No.	44	Eaton	Square,	and	Giles	paid	the	exact	sum	on	the	meter	before
walking	up	the	steps	and	knocking	on	the	door.	A	giant	of	a	man	answered,	and	smiled	at	Giles	almost	as
if	he’d	been	expecting	him.
‘May	I	help	you,	sir?’
‘I’m	looking	for	my	nephew,	Sebastian	Clifton,	who	I	understand	is	staying	here	with	his	friend	Bruno
Martinez.’
‘He	was	staying	here,	sir,’	said	the	butler	politely.	‘But	they	left	for	London	Airport	about	twenty
minutes	ago.’
‘Do	you	know	which	flight	they’re	on?’	he	asked.
‘I	have	no	idea,	Sir	Giles.’
‘Or	where	they’re	going?’
‘I	didn’t	ask.’
‘Thank	you,’	said	Giles,	who	after	years	as	an	opening	batsman	recognized	stonewalling	when	he	faced
it.	He	turned	to	look	for	another	taxi	as	the	door	closed	behind	him.	He	spotted	an	illuminated	yellow	sign
and	hailed	the	cab,	which	immediately	performed	a	U-turn	to	pick	him	up.
‘London	Airport,’	he	said,	before	climbing	quickly	into	the	back.	‘And	I’ll	give	you	double	what’s	on
the	clock	if	you	get	me	there	in	forty	minutes.’	They	pulled	away	just	as	the	door	of	No.	44	opened	and	a
young	man	came	running	down	the	steps,	waving	at	him	frantically.
‘Stop!’	Giles	shouted.	The	taxi	screeched	to	a	halt.
‘Make	your	mind	up,	guv.’
Giles	pulled	down	the	window	as	the	young	man	ran	towards	him.
‘My	name	is	Bruno	Martinez,’	he	said.	‘They	haven’t	gone	to	the	airport.	They’re	on	their	way	to
Southampton	to	join	the	SS	South	America.’
‘What’s	her	departure	time?’	asked	Giles
‘They’re	sailing	on	the	last	tide	around	nine	o’clock	this	evening.’‘Thank	you,’	said	Giles.	‘I’ll	let	Sebastian	know—’
‘No,	please	don’t,	sir,’	said	Bruno.	‘And	whatever	you	do,	don’t	tell	my	father	I’ve	spoken	to	you.’
Neither	of	them	noticed	that	someone	was	staring	out	of	the	window	of	No.	44.
Sebastian	enjoyed	sitting	in	the	back	of	a	Rolls-Royce,	but	was	surprised	when	they	came	to	a	halt	in
Battersea.
‘Ever	flown	in	a	helicopter	before?’	asked	Don	Pedro.
‘No,	sir.	I’ve	never	been	on	a	plane	before.’
‘It	will	take	two	hours	off	our	journey.	If	you’re	going	to	work	for	me,	you’ll	quickly	learn	that	time	is
money.’
The	helicopter	soared	into	the	sky,	banked	to	the	right	and	headed	south	towards	Southampton.
Sebastian	looked	down	on	the	early	evening	traffic	as	it	continued	its	snail-like	pace	out	of	London.
‘I	can’t	do	Southampton	in	forty	minutes,	guv,’	said	the	cabbie.
‘Fair	enough,’	said	Giles,	‘but	if	you	can	get	me	to	the	dockside	before	the	SS	South	America	sails,	I’ll
still	double	your	fare.’
The	taxi	driver	shot	off	like	a	thoroughbred	out	of	the	stalls,	and	did	his	best	to	overcome	the	rush-hour
traffic,	taking	back	doubles,	going	down	side	streets	Giles	hadn’t	realized	existed,	moving	across	into	the
oncoming	lane	before	swerving	back	to	run	lights	that	had	already	turned	red.	But	it	still	took	over	an	hour
before	he	emerged	on	to	Winchester	Road,	only	to	find	that	long	stretches	of	roadworks	restricted	them	to
a	single	lane	and	the	speed	of	its	slowest	driver.	Giles	looked	out	of	the	window	and	didn’t	see	that	much
road	work	in	progress.
He	kept	checking	his	watch,	but	the	second	hand	was	the	only	thing	that	kept	a	steady	pace,	and	the
chances	of	them	making	it	to	the	docks	before	nine	were	looking	more	and	more	unlikely	by	the	minute.
He	prayed	that	the	ship	would	be	held	up	for	just	a	few	minutes,	although	he	knew	the	captain	couldn’t
afford	to	miss	the	tide.
Giles	sat	back	and	thought	about	Bruno’s	words.	Whatever	you	do,	don’t	tell	my	father	I’ve	spoken	to
you.	Sebastian	couldn’t	have	asked	more	of	a	friend.	He	looked	at	his	watch	again:	7.30	p.m.	How	could
the	butler	have	made	such	a	simple	mistake	when	he	said	they	were	on	their	way	to	London	Airport?	7.45
p.m.	It	clearly	wasn’t	a	mistake,	because	the	man	had	addressed	him	as	‘Sir	Giles’,	although	he	had	no
way	of	knowing	that	he	was	about	to	turn	up	on	his	doorstep.	Unless	.	.	.	8	p.m.	And	when	he	said	‘they
left	for	London	Airport’,	who	was	the	other	person	he	was	referring	to?	Bruno’s	father?	8.15	p.m.	Giles
hadn’t	been	able	to	come	up	with	a	satisfactory	answer	to	any	of	these	questions	by	the	time	the	taxi
swung	off	the	Winchester	Road	and	headed	for	the	docks.	8.30	p.m.	Giles	set	aside	all	his	misgivings	and
began	to	think	about	what	needed	to	be	done	if	they	arrived	at	the	dockside	before	the	ship	had	raised	its
anchor.	8.45	p.m.
‘Faster!’	he	demanded,	although	he	suspected	the	driver	already	had	his	foot	flat	to	the	floor.	At	last	he
spotted	the	great	liner,	and	as	it	grew	larger	and	larger	by	the	minute,	he	began	to	believe	that	they	just
might	make	it.	But	then	he	heard	a	sound	he	had	been	dreading:	three	loud,	prolonged	blasts	of	a	fog	horn.
‘Time	and	tide	wait	for	no	man,’	said	the	driver.	An	observation	Giles	could	have	lived	without	at	that
particular	moment.
The	taxi	came	to	a	halt	by	the	side	of	the	South	America,	but	the	passenger	ramp	had	already	been
raised	and	the	mooring	ropes	released	to	allow	the	vast	ship	to	ease	its	way	slowly	away	from	the
dockside	and	out	into	the	open	sea.Giles	felt	helpless	as	he	watched	two	tugs	guide	the	ship	out	into	the	estuary,	like	ants	leading	an
elephant	to	safer	ground.
‘The	harbourmaster’s	office!’	he	shouted,	without	any	idea	where	that	might	be.	The	driver	had	to	stop
twice	to	ask	for	directions	before	he	pulled	up	outside	the	only	office	building	that	still	had	all	its	lights
on.
Giles	jumped	out	of	the	taxi	and	charged	into	the	harbourmaster’s	office	without	knocking.	Inside,	he
came	face	to	face	with	three	startled	men.
‘Who	are	you?’	demanded	a	man	dressed	in	a	port	authority	uniform,	displaying	more	gold	braid	than
his	fellow	officers.
‘Sir	Giles	Barrington.	My	nephew	is	on	board	that	ship,’	he	said,	pointing	out	of	the	window.	‘Is	there
any	way	of	getting	him	off?’
‘I	wouldn’t	have	thought	so,	sir,	unless	the	captain	is	willing	to	stop	the	ship	and	allow	him	to	be
lowered	on	to	one	of	our	pilot	boats,	which	I’d	have	thought	was	most	unlikely.	But	I’ll	give	it	a	try.
What’s	the	passenger’s	name?’
‘Sebastian	Clifton.	He’s	still	a	minor,	and	I	have	his	parents’	authority	to	get	him	off	that	ship.’
The	harbourmaster	picked	up	a	microphone	and	began	twiddling	some	knobs	on	a	control	panel	as	he
tried	to	get	the	captain	on	the	line.
‘I	don’t	want	to	get	your	hopes	up,’	he	said,	‘but	the	captain	and	I	did	serve	together	in	the	Royal	Navy,
so	.	.	.’
‘This	is	the	captain	of	the	SS	South	America,’	said	a	very	English	voice.
‘It’s	Bob	Walters,	skipper.	We’ve	got	a	problem,	and	I’d	be	grateful	for	any	assistance	you	can	give,’
the	harbourmaster	said	before	passing	on	Sir	Giles’s	request.
‘In	normal	circumstances	I’d	be	happy	to	oblige,	Bob,’	said	the	captain,	‘but	the	owner’s	on	the	bridge,
so	I’ll	have	to	ask	his	permission.’
‘Thank	you,’	said	Giles	and	the	harbourmaster	in	unison,	before	the	line	went	dead.
‘Are	there	any	circumstances	in	which	you	have	the	authority	to	over-rule	a	captain?’	asked	Giles	as
they	waited.
‘Only	while	his	ship’s	in	the	estuary.	Once	it’s	passed	the	northern	lighthouse,	it’s	deemed	to	be	in	the
Channel	and	beyond	my	jurisdiction.’
‘But	you	can	give	a	captain	an	order	while	his	ship’s	still	in	the	estuary?’
‘Yes,	sir,	but	remember,	it’s	a	foreign	vessel,	and	we	don’t	want	a	diplomatic	incident,	so	I	wouldn’t	be
willing	to	over-rule	the	captain	unless	I	was	convinced	a	criminal	act	was	taking	place.’
‘What’s	taking	them	so	long?’	asked	Giles	as	the	minutes	passed.	Suddenly	a	voice	crackled	over	the
intercom.
‘Sorry,	Bob.	The	owner’s	unwilling	to	grant	your	request	as	we’re	approaching	the	harbour	wall	and
will	soon	be	in	the	Channel.’
Giles	grabbed	the	microphone	from	the	harbourmaster.	‘This	is	Sir	Giles	Barrington.	Please	put	the
owner	on	the	line.	I	want	to	speak	to	him	personally.’
‘I’m	sorry,	Sir	Giles,’	said	the	captain,	‘but	Mr	Martinez	has	left	the	bridge	and	gone	to	his	cabin,	and
he	left	strict	instructions	that	he’s	not	to	be	disturbed.’HARRY	CLIFTON
195733
H ARRY	HAD	ASSUMED 	that	nothing	could	surpass	the	pride	he	felt	when	he	heard	Sebastian	had	been
awarded	a	scholarship	to	Cambridge.	He	was	wrong.	He	felt	just	as	proud	as	he	watched	his	wife
climbing	the	steps	and	on	to	the	platform	to	receive	her	business	degree,	summa	cum	laude,	from	Wallace
Sterling,	the	president	of	Stanford	University.
Harry	knew	better	than	anyone	the	sacrifices	Emma	had	made	to	meet	the	impossibly	high	standards
Professor	Feldman	set	himself	and	his	students,	and	he	had	expected	even	more	from	Emma,	as	he	had
made	clear	over	the	years.
As	she	left	the	stage	to	warm	applause,	her	navy	hood	in	place,	like	all	the	students	before	her,	she
hurled	her	mortar	board	joyfully	into	the	air,	the	sign	that	her	undergraduate	days	were	behind	her.	She
could	only	wonder	what	her	dear	mother	would	have	made	of	such	behaviour	from	a	36-year-old	English
lady,	and	in	public.
Harry’s	gaze	moved	from	his	wife	to	the	distinguished	professor	of	business	studies,	who	was	seated
on	the	stage	only	a	couple	of	places	away	from	the	university	president.	Cyrus	Feldman	made	no	attempt
to	hide	his	feelings	when	it	came	to	his	star	pupil.	He	was	the	first	on	his	feet	to	applaud	Emma,	and	the
last	to	sit	down.	Harry	often	marvelled	at	how	his	wife	could	subtly	make	powerful	men,	from	Pulitzer
Prize-winners	to	company	chairmen,	bend	to	her	will,	just	as	her	mother	had	done	before	her.
How	proud	Elizabeth	would	have	been	of	her	daughter	today,	but	no	prouder	than	his	own	mother,
because	Maisie	had	experienced	every	bit	as	painful	a	journey	before	she	could	place	the	letters	BA	after
her	name.
Harry	and	Emma	had	dined	with	Professor	Feldman	and	his	long-suffering	wife	Ellen	the	previous
evening.	Feldman	hadn’t	been	able	to	take	his	eyes	off	Emma,	and	had	even	suggested	that	she	should
return	to	Stanford	and,	under	his	personal	supervision,	complete	a	thesis	for	a	PhD.
‘What	about	my	poor	husband?’	Emma	had	said,	linking	her	arm	through	Harry’s.
‘He’ll	just	have	to	learn	to	live	without	you	for	a	couple	of	years,’	said	Feldman,	making	no	attempt	to
disguise	what	he	had	in	mind.	Many	a	red-blooded	Englishman	hearing	such	a	proposition	made	to	his
wife	might	have	punched	Feldman	on	the	nose,	and	a	less	tolerant	wife	than	Mrs	Feldman	might	well	have
been	forgiven	for	initiating	divorce	proceedings	as	her	three	predecessors	had	done.	Harry	just	smiled,
while	Mrs	Feldman	pretended	not	to	notice.
Harry	had	agreed	with	Emma’s	suggestion	that	they	should	fly	to	England	straight	after	the	ceremony,	as
she	wanted	to	be	back	at	the	Manor	House	before	Sebastian	returned	from	Beechcroft.	Their	son	was	no
longer	a	schoolboy,	she	mused,	and	only	three	months	away	from	being	an	undergraduate.
Once	the	degree	ceremony	was	over,	Emma	strolled	around	the	lawn,	enjoying	the	celebratory
atmosphere	and	making	the	acquaintance	of	her	fellow	graduates,	who,	like	her,	had	spent	countless	lonely
hours	of	study	while	residing	on	distant	shores,	and	were	now	meeting	for	the	first	time.	Spouses	wereintroduced,	family	photographs	shown	off	and	addresses	exchanged.
By	six	o’clock,	when	the	waiters	began	to	fold	up	the	chairs,	collect	the	drained	champagne	bottles	and
stack	the	last	of	the	empty	plates,	Harry	suggested	that	perhaps	they	should	make	their	way	back	to	their
hotel.
Emma	didn’t	stop	chatting	all	the	way	back	to	the	Fairmont,	while	she	was	packing,	during	the	taxi	ride
to	the	airport,	and	as	they	waited	for	their	flight	in	the	first-class	lounge.	No	sooner	had	she	climbed
aboard	the	aircraft,	found	her	place	and	fastened	her	seat	belt,	than	she	closed	her	eyes	and	immediately
fell	into	a	deep	sleep.
‘You’re	sounding	positively	middle-aged,’	said	Emma	as	they	started	out	on	the	long	drive	back	from
London	Airport	to	the	Manor	House.
‘I	am	middle-aged,’	said	Harry.	‘I’m	thirty-seven,	and	what’s	worse,	young	women	have	started	calling
me	sir.’
‘Well,	I	don’t	feel	middle-aged,’	said	Emma,	looking	down	at	the	map.	‘Take	a	right	at	the	traffic	lights
and	you’ll	be	on	the	Great	Bath	Road.’
‘That’s	because	life	has	just	begun	for	you.’
‘What	do	you	mean?’
‘Exactly	that.	You’ve	just	been	awarded	your	degree,	and	appointed	to	the	board	of	Barrington’s,	both
of	which	have	opened	up	a	whole	new	life	for	you.	Let’s	face	it,	twenty	years	ago	neither	opportunity
would	have	been	possible.’
‘They’ve	only	been	possible	in	my	case	because	Cyrus	Feldman	and	Ross	Buchanan	are	enlightened
men	when	it	comes	to	treating	women	as	equals.	And	don’t	forget	that	Giles	and	I	own	twenty-two	per
cent	of	the	company	between	us,	and	Giles	has	never	shown	the	slightest	interest	in	sitting	on	the	board.’
‘That	may	well	be	the	case,	but	if	you’re	seen	to	do	the	job	well,	it	might	help	convince	other	chairmen
to	follow	Ross’s	example.’
‘Don’t	kid	yourself.	It	will	still	be	decades	before	competent	women	are	given	the	chance	to	replace
incompetent	men.’
‘Well,	let’s	at	least	pray	it	will	be	different	for	Jessica.	I’m	hoping	that	by	the	time	she	leaves	school,
her	sole	purpose	in	life	won’t	be	to	learn	how	to	cook	and	to	find	someone	suitable	to	marry.’
‘Do	you	think	those	were	my	sole	purpose	in	life?’
‘If	they	were,	you	failed	on	both	counts,’	said	Harry.	‘And	don’t	forget	you	chose	me	when	you	were
eleven.’
‘Ten,’	said	Emma.	‘But	it	still	took	you	another	seven	years	to	work	it	out.’
‘Anyway,’	said	Harry,	‘we	shouldn’t	assume	that	just	because	we	both	won	places	at	Oxford,	and
Grace	is	a	don	at	Cambridge,	that’s	a	path	Jessica	will	want	to	tread.’
‘And	why	should	she,	when	she’s	so	gifted?	I	know	she	admires	what	Seb	has	achieved,	but	her	role
models	are	Barbara	Hepworth	and	someone	called	Mary	Cassatt,	which	is	why	I’ve	been	considering
what	alternatives	are	open	to	her.’	Emma	looked	back	down	at	the	map.	‘Turn	right	in	about	half	a	mile.	It
should	be	signposted	Reading.’
‘What	have	you	two	been	plotting	behind	my	back?’	asked	Harry.
‘If	Jessica	is	good	enough,	and	her	art	teacher	assures	me	she	is,	the	school	want	her	to	apply	for	a
place	at	the	Royal	College	of	Art,	or	the	Slade	School	of	Fine	Art.’
‘Didn’t	Miss	Fielding	go	to	the	Slade?’
‘Yes,	and	she	regularly	reminds	me	that	Jessica	is	a	far	better	artist	at	the	age	of	fifteen	than	she	was	in
her	diploma	year.’‘That	must	be	a	bit	galling.’
‘Typical	man’s	reaction.	Actually,	Miss	Fielding	is	only	interested	in	seeing	Jessica	fulfil	her	potential.
She	wants	her	to	be	the	first	girl	from	Red	Maids’	to	win	a	place	at	the	Royal	College.’
‘That	would	be	quite	a	double,’	said	Harry,	‘as	Seb’s	the	first	boy	from	Beechcroft	Abbey	to	win	the
top	scholarship	to	Cambridge.’
‘The	first	since	1922,’	Emma	corrected	him.	‘Turn	left	at	the	next	roundabout.’
‘They	must	love	you	on	the	board	of	Barrington’s,’	said	Harry	as	he	carried	out	her	instruction.	‘By	the
way,	just	in	case	you’ve	forgotten,	my	latest	book	is	coming	out	next	week.’
‘Are	they	sending	you	anywhere	interesting	to	promote	it?’
‘I’m	speaking	at	a	Yorkshire	Post	literary	lunch	on	Friday,	and	I’m	told	they’ve	sold	so	many	tickets
they’ve	had	to	move	it	from	a	local	hotel	to	the	York	racecourse.’
Emma	leant	over	to	give	him	a	kiss	on	the	cheek.	‘Congratulations,	my	darling!’
‘Nothing	to	do	with	me,	I’m	afraid,	because	I’m	not	the	only	speaker.’
‘Tell	me	the	name	of	your	rival	so	I	can	have	him	killed.’
‘Her	name	is	Agatha	Christie.’
‘So	is	William	Warwick	at	last	proving	a	challenger	to	Hercule	Poirot?’
‘Not	yet,	I’m	afraid.	But	then,	Miss	Christie	has	written	forty-nine	novels,	while	I’ve	only	just
completed	my	fifth.’
‘Perhaps	you’ll	catch	her	up	by	the	time	you’ve	written	forty-nine.’
‘I	should	be	so	lucky.	So	while	I’m	gallivanting	around	the	country	trying	to	get	on	to	the	bestseller	list,
what	will	you	be	up	to?’
‘I	told	Ross	I’d	drop	into	the	office	and	see	him	on	Monday.	I’m	trying	to	convince	him	not	to	go	ahead
with	the	building	of	the	Buckingham.’
‘But	why?’
‘Now	is	not	the	time	to	risk	investing	that	kind	of	money	on	a	luxury	liner	while	passengers	are	rapidly
switching	their	allegiance	to	aeroplanes.’
‘I	see	your	point,	though	I’d	much	rather	sail	to	New	York	than	fly.’
‘That’s	because	you’re	middle-aged,’	said	Emma,	patting	him	on	the	thigh.	‘I	also	promised	Giles	I’d
pop	over	to	Barrington	Hall	and	make	sure	Marsden	has	everything	ready	for	him	and	Gwyneth	when	they
come	down	for	the	weekend.’
‘Marsden	will	be	more	than	ready	for	them.’
‘He’ll	be	sixty	next	year,	and	I	know	he’s	thinking	about	retiring.’
‘He	won’t	be	easy	to	replace,’	said	Harry	as	they	passed	the	first	signpost	for	Bristol.
‘Gwyneth	doesn’t	want	to	replace	him.	She	says	it’s	high	time	Giles	was	dragged	into	the	second	half
of	the	twentieth	century.’
‘What	does	she	have	in	mind?’
‘She	thinks	there	might	be	a	Labour	government	after	the	next	election,	and	as	Giles	would	almost
certainly	be	a	minister,	she	intends	to	prepare	him	for	the	task,	which	doesn’t	include	being	mollycoddled
by	servants.	In	future	the	only	servants	she	wants	assisting	him	will	be	civil.’
‘Giles	got	lucky	when	he	met	Gwyneth.’
‘Hasn’t	the	time	come	for	him	to	propose	to	the	poor	girl?’
‘Yes	it	has,	but	he’s	still	bruised	from	his	experience	with	Virginia,	and	I	don’t	think	he’s	quite	ready	to
make	another	commitment.’
‘Then	he’d	better	get	on	with	it,	because	women	as	good	as	Gwyneth	don’t	come	around	that	often,’
said	Emma,	turning	her	attention	back	to	the	map.
Harry	accelerated	past	a	lorry.	‘I	still	can’t	get	used	to	the	idea	of	Seb	no	longer	being	a	schoolboy.’
‘Have	you	got	anything	planned	for	his	first	weekend	back	home?’‘I	thought	I’d	take	him	to	see	Gloucestershire	play	Black-heath	at	the	County	Ground	tomorrow.’
Emma	laughed.	‘That	will	be	character	building,	to	be	made	to	watch	a	team	that	loses	more	often	than
it	wins.’
‘And	perhaps	we	could	all	go	to	the	Old	Vic	one	evening	next	week,’	he	added,	ignoring	her	comment.
‘What’s	on?’
‘Hamlet.’
‘Who’s	playing	the	prince?’
‘A	young	actor	called	Peter	O’Toole,	who	Seb	says	is	the	in	thing,	whatever	that	means.’
‘It	will	be	wonderful	to	have	Seb	back	for	the	summer.	Perhaps	we	should	throw	a	party	for	him	before
he	goes	to	Cambridge.	Give	him	a	chance	to	meet	some	girls.’
‘He’ll	have	more	than	enough	time	for	girls.	I	think	it’s	a	crying	shame	that	the	government’s	ending
National	Service.	Seb	would	make	a	fine	officer,	and	it	would	be	the	making	of	him	to	take	responsibility
for	other	men.’
‘You’re	not	middle-aged,’	said	Emma	as	they	turned	into	the	drive,	‘you’re	positively	prehistoric.’
Harry	laughed	as	he	brought	the	car	to	a	halt	outside	the	Manor	House,	and	was	delighted	to	see	Jessica
sitting	on	the	top	step,	waiting	for	them.
‘Where’s	Seb?’	was	Emma’s	first	question	as	she	climbed	out	of	the	car	and	gave	Jessica	a	hug.
‘He	didn’t	come	back	from	school	yesterday.	Perhaps	he	went	straight	to	Barrington	Hall	and	spent	the
night	with	Uncle	Giles.’
‘I	thought	Giles	was	in	London,’	said	Harry.	‘I’ll	give	him	a	call	and	find	out	if	they	can	both	join	us	for
dinner.’
Harry	climbed	the	steps	and	went	into	the	house.	He	picked	up	the	phone	in	the	hall	and	dialled	a	local
number.
‘We’re	back,’	he	announced	when	he	heard	Giles’s	voice	on	the	line.
‘Welcome	home,	Harry.	Did	you	have	a	good	time	in	the	States?’
‘Couldn’t	have	been	better.	Emma	stole	the	show,	of	course.	I	think	Feldman	wants	her	to	be	his	fifth
wife.’
‘Well,	it	would	have	some	definite	advantages,’	said	Giles.	‘It’s	never	a	long-term	commitment	when
that	man’s	involved,	and	being	California,	there’ll	be	a	pretty	healthy	divorce	settlement	at	the	end.’
Harry	laughed.	‘By	the	way,	is	Seb	with	you?’
‘No,	he’s	not.	In	fact,	I	haven’t	seen	him	for	some	time.	But	I’m	sure	he	can’t	be	far	away.	Why	don’t
you	ring	the	school	and	find	out	if	he’s	still	there?	Call	me	back	when	you	find	out	where	he	is,	because
I’ve	got	some	news	for	you.’
‘Will	do,’	said	Harry.	He	put	the	phone	down	and	looked	up	the	headmaster’s	number	in	his	telephone
book.
‘Don’t	worry,	darling,	he’s	no	longer	a	schoolboy,	as	you	keep	reminding	me,’	he	said	when	he	saw	the
anxious	look	on	Emma’s	face.	‘I’m	sure	there’ll	be	a	simple	explanation.’	He	dialled	Beechcroft	117,	and
while	he	waited	for	someone	to	answer,	he	took	his	wife	in	his	arms.
‘Dr	Banks-Williams	speaking.’
‘Headmaster,	it’s	Harry	Clifton.	I’m	sorry	to	bother	you	after	the	school	has	broken	up,	but	I	wondered
if	you	had	any	idea	where	my	son	Sebastian	might	be.’
‘I’ve	no	idea,	Mr	Clifton.	I	haven’t	seen	him	since	he	was	rusticated	earlier	in	the	week.’
‘Rusticated?’
‘I’m	afraid	so,	Mr	Clifton.	I	fear	I	was	left	with	little	choice.’
‘But	what	did	he	do	to	deserve	that?’
‘Several	minor	offences,	including	smoking.’
‘And	any	major	offences?’‘He	was	caught	drinking	in	his	study	with	a	serving	maid.’
‘And	that	was	considered	worthy	of	rustication?’
‘I	might	have	turned	a	blind	eye,	as	it	was	the	last	week	of	term,	but	unfortunately	neither	of	them	had
any	clothes	on.’
Harry	stifled	a	laugh,	and	was	only	glad	that	Emma	couldn’t	hear	the	other	side	of	the	conversation.
‘When	he	reported	to	me	the	following	day,	I	told	him	that	after	some	deliberation,	and	having
consulted	his	housemaster,	I	was	left	with	no	choice	but	to	rusticate	him.	I	then	gave	him	a	letter	which	I
asked	him	to	pass	on	to	you.	It’s	clear	that	he	has	not	done	so.’
‘But	where	can	he	be?’	asked	Harry,	becoming	anxious	for	the	first	time.
‘I’ve	no	idea.	All	I	can	tell	you	is	that	his	housemaster	supplied	him	with	a	third-class	single	ticket	to
Temple	Meads,	and	I	assumed	that	would	be	the	last	I	would	see	of	him.	However,	I	had	to	travel	up	to
London	that	afternoon	to	attend	an	Old	Boys’	reunion	dinner,	and	to	my	surprise	I	found	him	travelling	on
the	same	train.’
‘Did	you	ask	him	why	he	was	going	to	London?’
‘I	would	have	done	so,’	said	the	headmaster	dryly,	‘if	he	hadn’t	left	the	carriage	the	moment	he	saw
me.’
‘Why	would	he	do	that?’
‘Possibly	because	he	was	smoking,	and	I’d	previously	warned	him	that	if	he	broke	any	more	school
rules	during	term	time	he	would	be	expelled.	And	he	knew	only	too	well	that	would	mean	me	calling	the
admissions	tutor	at	Cambridge	and	recommending	that	his	prize	scholarship	be	withdrawn.’
‘And	did	you?’
‘No,	I	did	not.	You	have	my	wife	to	thank	for	that.	If	I’d	had	my	way,	he	would	have	been	expelled	and
forfeited	his	place	at	Cambridge.’
‘For	smoking,	when	he	wasn’t	even	on	the	school	premises?’
‘That	was	not	his	only	offence.	He	was	also	occupying	a	first-class	carriage	when	he	didn’t	have	the
money	for	a	first-class	ticket,	and	earlier	he’d	lied	to	his	housemaster	about	going	straight	back	to	Bristol.
That,	on	top	of	his	other	offences,	would	have	been	quite	enough	to	convince	me	that	he	was	unworthy	of
a	place	at	my	old	university.	I’ve	no	doubt	I	will	live	to	regret	my	leniency.’
‘And	that	was	the	last	you	saw	of	him?’	said	Harry,	trying	to	remain	calm.
‘Yes,	and	it’s	the	last	I	want	to	see	of	him,’	said	the	headmaster,	before	putting	the	phone	down.
Harry	reported	the	other	end	of	the	conversation	to	Emma,	only	leaving	out	the	incident	with	the	serving
maid.
‘But	where	could	he	be	now?’	asked	Emma	anxiously.
‘The	first	thing	I’m	going	to	do	is	ring	Giles	back	and	let	him	know	what’s	happened,	before	we	decide
what	to	do	next.’	Harry	picked	up	the	phone	again,	and	took	some	time	repeating	the	headmaster’s
conversation	almost	verbatim.
Giles	was	silent	for	a	few	moments.	‘It’s	not	hard	to	work	out	what	must	have	been	going	through	Seb’s
mind	after	Banks-Williams	found	him	on	the	train.’
‘Well	I’m	damned	if	I	can	work	it	out,’	said	Harry.
‘Put	yourself	in	his	shoes,’	said	Giles.	‘He	thinks	that	because	the	headmaster’s	caught	him	smoking
while	travelling	up	to	London	without	permission,	he	must	have	been	expelled,	and	lost	his	place	at
Cambridge.	I	suspect	you’ll	find	he’s	afraid	of	returning	home	and	having	to	face	you	and	Emma.’
‘Well,	that’s	no	longer	the	problem,	but	we	still	have	to	find	him	and	let	him	know.	If	I	drive	up	to
London	straight	away,	can	I	stay	at	Smith	Square?’
‘Of	course	you	can,	but	that	doesn’t	make	any	sense,	Harry.	You	should	stay	at	the	Manor	House	with
Emma.	I’ll	go	up	to	London	and	then	we’ll	have	both	ends	covered.’
‘But	you	and	Gwyneth	are	meant	to	be	spending	a	weekend	together,	in	case	you’d	forgotten.’‘And	Seb’s	still	my	nephew,	Harry,	in	case	you’ve	forgotten.’
‘Thank	you,’	said	Harry.
‘I’ll	ring	you	as	soon	as	I	get	to	London.’
‘You	said	you	had	some	news?’
‘It’s	not	important.	Well,	not	as	important	as	finding	Seb.’
Giles	drove	up	to	London	that	evening,	and	when	he	arrived	in	Smith	Square	his	housekeeper	confirmed
that	Sebastian	hadn’t	been	in	touch.
Once	Giles	had	passed	that	news	on	to	Harry,	his	next	call	was	to	the	assistant	commissioner	at
Scotland	Yard.	He	couldn’t	have	been	more	sympathetic,	but	he	pointed	out	that	a	dozen	children	were
reported	missing	in	London	every	day,	and	most	of	them	were	a	lot	younger	than	Sebastian.	In	a	city	with
a	population	of	eight	million,	it	was	like	looking	for	a	needle	in	a	haystack.	But	he	said	he	would	put	out
an	alert	to	every	police	district	in	the	Met	area.
Harry	and	Emma	sat	up	late	into	the	night	calling	Sebastian’s	grandmother	Maisie,	his	aunt	Grace,
Deakins,	Ross	Buchanan,	Griff	Haskins,	and	even	Miss	Parish,	as	they	tried	to	find	out	if	Sebastian	had
been	in	touch	with	any	of	them.	Harry	spoke	to	Giles	several	times	the	following	day,	but	he	had	nothing
new	to	report.	A	needle	in	a	haystack,	he	repeated.
‘How’s	Emma	bearing	up?’
‘Not	well.	She	fears	the	worst	as	each	hour	passes.’
‘And	Jessica?’
‘Inconsolable.’
‘I’ll	call	you	the	moment	I	hear	anything.’
The	following	afternoon,	Giles	rang	Harry	from	the	House	of	Commons	to	tell	him	he	was	on	his	way	to
Paddington	to	visit	a	woman	who’d	asked	to	see	him	because	she	had	news	about	Sebastian.
Harry	and	Emma	sat	by	the	phone,	expecting	Giles	to	ring	back	within	the	hour,	but	he	didn’t	call	again
until	just	after	nine	o’clock	that	evening.
‘Tell	me	he’s	fit	and	well,’	said	Emma	after	she’d	grabbed	the	phone	out	of	Harry’s	hand.
‘He’s	fit	and	well,’	said	Giles,	‘but	I’m	afraid	that’s	the	only	good	news.	He’s	on	his	way	to	Buenos
Aires.’
‘What	are	you	talking	about?’	said	Emma.	‘Why	would	Seb	want	to	go	to	Buenos	Aires?’
‘I’ve	no	idea.	All	I	can	tell	you	is	that	he’s	on	board	the	SS	South	America	with	someone	called	Pedro
Martinez,	the	father	of	one	of	his	school	friends.’
‘Bruno,’	said	Emma.	‘Is	he	on	board	as	well?’
‘No,	he	can’t	be,	because	I	saw	him	at	his	house	in	Eaton	Square.’
‘We’ll	drive	up	to	London	immediately,’	said	Emma.	‘Then	we	can	visit	Bruno	first	thing	in	the
morning.’
‘I	don’t	think	that	would	be	wise	in	the	circumstances,’	said	Giles.
‘Why	not?’	demanded	Emma.
‘For	several	reasons,	not	least	because	I’ve	just	had	a	call	from	Sir	Alan	Redmayne,	the	cabinet
secretary.	He’s	asked	if	the	three	of	us	would	join	him	in	Downing	Street	at	ten	o’clock	tomorrow.	I	can’t
believe	it’s	a	coincidence.’34
‘G OOD	DAY, 	S IR 	A LAN ,’	said	Giles	as	the	three	of	them	were	shown	into	the	cabinet	secretary’s	office.
‘May	I	introduce	my	sister,	Emma,	and	my	brother-in-law,	Harry	Clifton?’
Sir	Alan	Redmayne	shook	hands	with	Harry	and	Emma	before	introducing	Mr	Hugh	Spencer.
‘Mr	Spencer	is	an	assistant	secretary	at	the	Treasury,’	he	explained.	‘The	reason	for	his	presence	will
become	clear.’
They	all	sat	down	around	a	circular	table	in	the	centre	of	the	room.
‘I	realize	this	meeting	was	called	to	discuss	a	most	serious	matter,’	said	Sir	Alan,	‘but	before	I	begin,	I
would	like	to	say,	Mr	Clifton,	that	I	am	an	avid	follower	of	William	Warwick.	Your	latest	book	is	on	my
wife’s	side	of	the	bed,	so	unfortunately	I	won’t	be	allowed	to	read	it	until	she’s	turned	the	last	page.’
‘That’s	very	kind	of	you,	sir.’
‘Let	me	begin	by	explaining	why	we	needed	to	see	you	at	such	short	notice,’	said	Sir	Alan,	his	tone	of
voice	changing.	‘I	would	like	to	reassure	you,	Mr	and	Mrs	Clifton,	that	we	are	just	as	concerned	about
your	son’s	welfare	as	you	are,	even	if	our	interests	may	differ	from	yours.	The	government’s	interest,’	he
continued,	‘centres	around	a	man	called	Don	Pedro	Martinez,	who	has	fingers	in	so	many	pies	that	we
now	have	a	filing	cabinet	exclusively	devoted	to	him.	Mr	Martinez	is	an	Argentinian	citizen	with	a
residence	in	Eaton	Square,	a	country	house	at	Shillingford,	three	cruise	liners,	a	string	of	polo	ponies
stabled	at	the	Guards	Polo	Club	in	Windsor	Great	Park,	and	a	box	at	Ascot.	He	always	comes	to	London
during	the	season,	and	has	a	wide	circle	of	friends	and	associates	who	believe	him	to	be	a	wealthy	cattle
baron.	And	why	shouldn’t	they?	He	owns	three	hundred	thousand	acres	of	pampas	in	Argentina,	with
around	five	hundred	thousand	head	of	cattle	grazing	on	it.	Although	this	yields	him	a	handsome	profit,	in
fact	it’s	nothing	more	than	a	front	to	shield	his	more	nefarious	activities.’
‘And	what	are	they?’	asked	Giles.
‘To	put	it	bluntly,	Sir	Giles,	he’s	an	international	crook.	He	makes	Moriarty	look	like	a	choir	boy.
Allow	me	to	tell	you	a	little	more	of	what	we	know	about	Mr	Martinez,	and	then	I’ll	be	happy	to	answer
any	questions	you	might	have.	Our	paths	first	crossed	in	1935,	when	I	was	a	special	assistant	attached	to
the	War	Office.	I	discovered	he	was	doing	business	with	Germany.	He	had	forged	a	close	relationship
with	Heinrich	Himmler,	the	head	of	the	SS,	and	we	know	he	met	Hitler	on	at	least	three	occasions.	During
the	war	he	made	a	vast	fortune	supplying	the	Germans	with	whatever	raw	materials	they	were	short	of,
although	he	was	still	living	in	Eaton	Square.’
‘Why	didn’t	you	arrest	him?’	asked	Giles.
‘It	suited	our	purposes	not	to,’	said	Sir	Alan.	‘We	were	keen	to	find	out	who	his	contacts	in	Britain
were,	and	what	they	were	up	to.	Once	the	war	was	over,	Martinez	returned	to	Argentina	and	continued
trading	as	a	cattle	farmer.	In	fact,	he	never	once	went	back	to	Berlin	after	the	Allies	had	entered	the	city.
He	continued	to	visit	this	country	regularly.	He	even	sent	all	three	of	his	sons	to	English	public	schools,and	his	daughter	is	currently	at	Roedean.’
‘Forgive	me	for	interrupting,’	said	Emma,	‘but	how	does	Sebastian	fit	into	all	of	this?’
‘He	didn’t,	Mrs	Clifton,	until	last	week,	when	he	turned	up	unannounced	at	forty-four	Eaton	Square,	and
his	friend	Bruno	invited	him	to	stay.’
‘I’ve	met	Bruno	a	couple	of	times,’	said	Harry,	‘and	I	thought	he	was	a	charming	young	man.’
‘I’m	sure	he	is,’	said	Sir	Alan.	‘Which	only	adds	to	Martinez’s	image	as	a	decent	family	man	who	loves
England.	However,	your	son	unwittingly	became	involved	in	an	operation	our	law-enforcement	agencies
have	been	working	on	for	several	years	when	he	met	Don	Pedro	Martinez	for	the	second	time.’
‘The	second	time?’	queried	Giles.
‘On	June	eighteenth	1954,’	said	Sir	Alan,	referring	to	his	notes,	‘Martinez	invited	Sebastian	to	join	him
at	the	Beechcroft	Arms	public	house	to	celebrate	Bruno’s	fifteenth	birthday.’
‘You	keep	that	close	an	eye	on	Martinez?’	said	Giles.
‘We	most	certainly	do.’	The	cabinet	secretary	extracted	a	brown	envelope	from	the	papers	in	front	of
him,	took	out	two	five-pound	notes	and	placed	them	on	the	table.	‘And	Mr	Martinez	gave	your	son	these
two	bank	notes	on	Friday	evening.’
‘But	that’s	more	money	than	Sebastian	has	ever	had	in	his	life,’	said	Emma.	‘We	only	give	him	half	a
crown	pocket	money	each	week.’
‘I	expect	Martinez	realized	that	such	a	sum	would	be	more	than	enough	to	turn	the	young	man’s	head.
He	then	trumped	it	by	inviting	Sebastian	to	accompany	him	to	Buenos	Aires	at	a	time	when	he	knew	the
boy	was	at	his	most	vulnerable.’
‘How	did	you	come	into	possession	of	the	two	random	five-pound	notes	Martinez	gave	to	my	son?’
asked	Harry.
‘They’re	not	random,’	said	the	man	from	the	Treasury,	speaking	for	the	first	time.	‘We’ve	collected
over	ten	thousand	of	them	in	the	past	eight	years,	as	a	result	of	information	supplied	by	what	I	believe	the
police	call	a	reliable	source.’
‘What	reliable	source?’	demanded	Giles.
‘Have	you	ever	heard	of	an	SS	officer	called	Major	Bernhard	Krüger?’	asked	Spencer.
The	silence	that	followed	suggested	that	none	of	them	had.
‘Major	Krüger	is	a	resourceful	and	intelligent	man,	who	was	a	police	inspector	in	Berlin	before	he
joined	the	SS.	In	fact,	he’d	ended	up	in	charge	of	the	anti-counterfeit	squad.	After	Britain	declared	war	on
Germany,	he	convinced	Himmler	that	it	would	be	possible	for	the	Nazis	to	destabilize	the	British
economy	by	flooding	England	with	perfect	copies	of	the	five-pound	note,	but	only	if	he	was	allowed	to
select	the	finest	printers,	copper	engravers	and	retouchers	from	Sachsenhausen	concentration	camp,	where
he	was	the	commandant.	However,	his	biggest	coup	was	to	recruit	the	master	forger	Salomon	Smolianoff,
whom	he	had	arrested	and	sent	to	prison	on	no	fewer	than	three	occasions	when	he	was	with	the	Berlin
police.	Once	Smolianoff	was	on	board,	Krüger’s	team	were	able	to	forge	around	twenty-seven	million
five-pound	notes,	with	a	face	value	of	a	hundred	and	thirty-five	million	pounds.’
Harry	had	the	grace	to	gasp.
‘Some	time	in	1945,	when	the	Allies	were	advancing	on	Berlin,	Hitler	gave	the	order	that	the	presses
were	to	be	destroyed,	and	we	have	every	reason	to	believe	they	were.	However,	a	few	weeks	before
Germany	surrendered,	Krüger	was	arrested	trying	to	cross	the	German-Swiss	border	with	a	suitcase	full
of	the	forged	notes.	He	spent	two	years	in	prison	in	the	British	sector	of	Berlin.
‘We	might	have	lost	interest	in	him	if	the	Bank	of	England	hadn’t	set	alarm	bells	ringing	by	informing	us
that	the	notes	found	in	Krüger’s	possession	were	in	fact	genuine.	The	governor	of	the	bank	at	the	time
claimed	that	no	one	on	earth	was	capable	of	counterfeiting	a	British	five-pound	note,	and	nothing	could
convince	him	otherwise.	We	questioned	Krüger	about	how	many	of	these	notes	were	in	circulation,	but
before	he	would	give	us	that	information,	he	skilfully	negotiated	terms	for	his	release,	using	Don	PedroMartinez	as	his	bargaining	chip.’
Mr	Spencer	paused	to	take	a	sip	of	water,	but	no	one	interrupted	him.
‘An	agreement	was	struck	to	release	Krüger	after	he’d	served	only	three	years	of	his	seven-year
sentence,	but	not	until	he’d	informed	us	that,	towards	the	end	of	the	war,	Martinez	had	made	a	deal	with
Himmler	to	smuggle	twenty	million	pounds’	worth	of	forged	five-pound	notes	out	of	Germany	and
somehow	get	them	to	Argentina,	where	he	was	to	await	further	orders.	That	wouldn’t	have	proved
difficult	for	a	man	who’d	smuggled	everything	from	a	Sherman	tank	to	a	Russian	submarine	into	Germany.
‘In	return	for	another	year	off	his	sentence,	Krüger	informed	us	that	Himmler,	along	with	a	handful	of
carefully	selected	members	of	the	top	Nazi	leadership,	including	possibly	even	Hitler	himself,	were
hoping	to	escape	their	fate	by	somehow	getting	to	Buenos	Aires,	where	they	would	then	live	out	their	days
at	the	Bank	of	England’s	expense.
‘However,	when	it	became	clear	that	Himmler	and	his	cronies	would	not	be	showing	up	in	Argentina,’
continued	Spencer,	‘Martinez	found	himself	in	possession	of	twenty	million	pounds	in	forged	notes	that	he
needed	to	dispose	of.	Not	an	easy	task.	To	begin	with,	I	dismissed	Krüger’s	story	as	pure	fantasy,
invented	to	save	his	own	skin,	but	then,	as	the	years	passed,	and	more	and	more	bogus	five-pound	notes
appeared	on	the	market	whenever	Martinez	was	in	London	or	his	son	Luis	was	working	the	tables	in
Monte	Carlo,	I	realized	we	had	a	real	problem.	This	was	proved	yet	again	when	Sebastian	spent	one	of
his	two	five-pound	notes	on	a	Savile	Row	suit	and	the	assistant	didn’t	suggest	that	they	were	not	genuine.’
‘As	recently	as	two	years	ago,’	chipped	in	Sir	Alan,	‘I	expressed	my	frustration	with	the	Bank	of
England’s	stance	to	Mr	Churchill.	With	the	simplicity	of	genius,	he	gave	orders	that	a	new	five-pound	note
should	be	put	into	circulation	as	quickly	as	possible.	Of	course,	bringing	such	a	note	into	circulation
could	not	be	done	overnight,	and	when	the	Bank	of	England	finally	announced	its	plans	to	issue	a	new
five-pound	note,	they	gave	Martinez	notice	that	he	was	running	out	of	time	in	which	to	dispose	of	his	vast
fake	fortune.’
‘And	then	those	mountebanks	at	the	Bank	of	England,’	came	back	Mr	Spencer	with	some	feeling,
‘announced	that	any	old	five-pound	notes	presented	to	the	Bank	before	December	thirty-first,	1957,	would
be	exchanged	for	new	ones.	So	all	Martinez	had	to	do	was	smuggle	his	forged	notes	into	Britain,	when	the
Bank	of	England	would	happily	convert	them	into	legal	tender.	We	estimate	that	over	the	past	ten	years,
Martinez	has	been	able	to	dispose	of	somewhere	between	five	and	ten	million	pounds,	but	that	leaves	him
with	another	eight,	perhaps	nine	million	still	secreted	in	Argentina.	Once	we	realized	there	was	nothing
we	could	do	to	alter	the	Bank	of	England’s	stance,	we	had	a	clause	inserted	into	last	year’s	budget,	with
the	sole	purpose	of	making	Martinez’s	task	more	difficult.	Last	April,	it	became	illegal	for	anyone	to	bring
more	than	one	thousand	pounds	in	cash	into	the	United	Kingdom.	And	he’s	recently	discovered,	to	his
cost,	that	neither	he	nor	his	associates	can	cross	any	border	in	Europe	without	customs	taking	their
luggage	apart.’
‘But	that	still	doesn’t	explain	what	Sebastian	is	doing	in	Buenos	Aires,’	said	Harry.
‘We	have	reason	to	believe,	Mr	Clifton,	that	your	son	has	been	sucked	into	Martinez’s	net,’	said
Spencer.	‘We	think	he	is	going	to	be	used	by	Don	Pedro	to	smuggle	the	last	eight	or	nine	million	pounds
into	England.	But	we	don’t	know	how	or	where.’
‘Then	Sebastian	must	be	in	great	danger?’	said	Emma,	staring	directly	at	the	cabinet	secretary.
‘Yes	and	no,’	said	Sir	Alan.	‘As	long	as	he	doesn’t	know	the	real	reason	Martinez	wanted	him	to	go	to
Argentina,	not	a	hair	on	his	head	will	be	harmed.	But	if	he	were	to	stumble	on	the	truth	while	he’s	in
Buenos	Aires,	and	by	all	accounts	he’s	bright	and	resourceful,	we	wouldn’t	hesitate	to	move	him	into	the
safety	of	our	embassy	compound	at	a	moment’s	notice.’
‘Why	don’t	you	just	do	that	as	soon	as	he	steps	off	the	ship?’	asked	Emma.	‘Our	son	is	worth
considerably	more	to	us	than	ten	million	pounds	of	anybody’s	money,’	she	added,	looking	to	Harry	for
support.‘Because	that	would	alert	Martinez	to	the	fact	that	we	know	what	he’s	up	to,’	said	Spencer.
‘But	there	must	be	a	risk	that	Seb	could	be	sacrificed,	like	a	pawn	on	a	chessboard	you	have	no	control
over.’
‘That	won’t	happen	as	long	as	he	remains	oblivious	to	what’s	going	on.	We’re	convinced	that	without
your	son’s	help,	Martinez	can’t	hope	to	move	that	amount	of	money.	Sebastian	is	our	one	chance	of	finding
out	how	he	intends	to	go	about	it.’
‘He’s	seventeen,’	Emma	said	helplessly.
‘Not	a	lot	younger	than	your	husband	was	when	he	was	arrested	for	murder,	or	Sir	Giles	when	he	won
his	MC.’
‘Those	were	completely	different	circumstances,’	insisted	Emma.
‘Same	enemy,’	said	Sir	Alan.
‘We	know	Seb	would	want	to	help	in	any	way	he	could,’	said	Harry,	taking	his	wife’s	hand,	‘but	that’s
not	the	point.	The	risks	are	far	too	great.’
‘You’re	right,	of	course,’	said	the	cabinet	secretary,	‘and	if	you	tell	us	you	want	him	taken	into	custody
the	moment	he	disembarks	from	the	ship,	I’ll	give	the	order	immediately.	But,’	he	said	before	Emma	could
agree,	‘we	have	come	up	with	a	plan.	However,	it	cannot	succeed	without	your	cooperation.’
He	waited	for	further	protests,	but	his	three	guests	remained	silent.
‘The	South	America	doesn’t	arrive	in	Buenos	Aires	for	another	five	days,’	continued	Sir	Alan.	‘If	our
plan	is	to	succeed,	we	need	to	get	a	message	to	our	ambassador	before	it	docks.’
‘Why	don’t	you	just	phone	him?’	asked	Giles.
‘I	wish	it	was	that	easy.	The	international	switchboard	in	Buenos	Aires	is	manned	by	twelve	women,
every	one	of	whom	is	in	the	pay	of	Martinez.	The	same	thing	applies	to	telegraphs.	Their	job	is	to	pick	up
any	information	that	might	be	of	interest	to	him,	information	about	politicians,	bankers,	businessmen,	even
police	operations,	so	he	can	then	use	it	to	his	advantage	and	make	himself	even	more	money.	Just	the
mention	of	his	name	on	a	phone	line	would	set	alarm	bells	ringing,	and	his	son	Diego	would	be	informed
within	minutes.	In	fact,	there	have	been	times	when	we’ve	been	able	to	take	advantage	of	the	situation	and
feed	Martinez	with	false	information,	but	that’s	too	risky	on	this	occasion.’
‘Sir	Alan,’	said	the	assistant	treasury	secretary,	‘why	don’t	you	tell	Mr	and	Mrs	Clifton	what	we	have
in	mind,	and	let	them	make	the	decision.’35
H E	WALKED	INTO 	London	Airport	and	headed	straight	for	the	Crew	Only	sign.
‘Good	morning,	Captain	May,’	said	the	duty	officer	after	he’d	checked	his	passport.	‘Where	are	you
flying	today,	sir?’
‘Buenos	Aires.’
‘Have	a	good	flight.’
Once	his	bags	had	been	checked,	he	passed	through	customs	and	headed	straight	for	gate	No.	11.	Don’t
stop,	don’t	look	round,	don’t	draw	attention	to	yourself,	were	the	instructions	given	by	the	anonymous	man
who	was	more	used	to	dealing	with	spies	than	authors.
The	last	forty-eight	hours	had	been	non-stop,	after	Emma	had	finally	agreed,	albeit	reluctantly,	that	he
could	assist	them	with	Operation	Run	Out.	Since	then	his	feet,	to	quote	his	old	master	sergeant,	hadn’t
touched	the	ground.
The	fitting	of	a	BOAC	captain’s	uniform	had	taken	up	one	of	those	hours,	the	photograph	for	the	fake
passport	another;	the	briefing	on	his	new	background,	including	a	divorced	wife	and	two	children,	three
hours;	a	lesson	on	the	duties	of	a	modern	BOAC	captain,	three	hours;	a	tourist’s	guide	to	Buenos	Aires,
one	hour;	and	over	dinner	with	Sir	Alan	at	his	club,	he	still	had	dozens	more	questions	that	needed	to	be
answered.
Just	before	he	left	the	Athenaeum	to	spend	a	sleepless	night	at	Giles’s	house	in	Smith	Square,	Sir	Alan
had	handed	him	a	thick	file,	a	briefcase	and	a	key.
‘Read	everything	in	this	file	during	your	journey	to	Buenos	Aires,	then	hand	it	to	the	ambassador,	who
will	destroy	it.	You’re	booked	into	the	Milonga	Hotel.	Our	ambassador,	Mr	Philip	Matthews,	is	expecting
to	see	you	at	the	embassy	at	ten	on	Saturday	morning.	You	will	also	hand	him	this	letter	from	Mr	Selwyn
Lloyd,	the	foreign	secretary,	which	will	explain	why	you’re	in	Argentina.’
Once	he’d	reached	the	gate,	he	walked	straight	up	to	the	attendant	at	the	desk.
‘Good	morning,	captain,’	she	said,	even	before	he’d	opened	his	passport.	‘I	hope	you	have	a	pleasant
flight.’
He	walked	out	on	to	the	tarmac,	climbed	the	steps	to	the	aircraft	and	entered	an	empty	first-class	cabin.
‘Good	morning,	Captain	May,’	said	an	attractive	young	woman.	‘My	name	is	Annabel	Carrick.	I’m	the
senior	stewardess.’
The	uniform,	and	the	discipline,	made	it	feel	like	being	back	in	the	army,	even	if	he	was	up	against	a
different	enemy	this	time,	or	was	it,	as	Sir	Alan	had	suggested,	the	same	one?
‘May	I	show	you	to	your	seat?’
‘Thank	you,	Miss	Carrick,’	he	said	as	she	led	him	to	the	rear	of	the	first-class	cabin.	Two	empty	seats,
but	he	knew	only	one	of	them	would	be	occupied.	Sir	Alan	didn’t	leave	that	sort	of	thing	to	chance.
‘The	first	leg	of	the	flight	should	take	about	seven	hours,’	said	the	stewardess.	‘Can	I	get	you	a	drinkbefore	we	take	off,	captain?’
‘Just	a	glass	of	water,	thank	you.’	He	took	off	his	peaked	cap	and	put	it	on	the	seat	beside	him,	then
placed	the	briefcase	on	the	floor	under	his	seat.	He	had	been	told	not	to	open	it	until	the	plane	had	taken
off,	and	to	be	certain	no	one	could	see	what	he	was	reading.	Not	that	the	file	mentioned	Martinez	by	name
from	the	first	page	to	the	last,	referring	to	him	only	as	‘the	subject’.
A	few	moments	later,	the	first	passengers	began	to	make	their	way	on	to	the	plane,	and	for	the	next
twenty	minutes	they	located	their	seats,	placed	their	bags	in	the	overhead	lockers,	shed	their	coats,	and
some	of	them	their	jackets,	settled	themselves	down,	enjoyed	a	glass	of	champagne,	clicked	on	their	seat
belts,	selected	a	newspaper	or	magazine,	and	waited	for	the	words,	‘This	is	your	captain	speaking.’
Harry	smiled	at	the	thought	of	the	captain	being	taken	ill	during	the	flight	and	Miss	Carrick	running	back
to	ask	him	for	his	assistance.	How	would	she	react	when	he	told	her	that	he’d	served	in	the	British
merchant	navy	and	the	US	army,	but	never	the	air	force?
The	plane	taxied	on	to	the	runway,	but	Harry	didn’t	unlock	his	briefcase	until	they	were	in	the	air	and
the	captain	had	turned	off	the	seat-belt	sign.	He	pulled	out	a	thick	file,	opened	it	and	began	to	study	its
contents,	as	if	he	was	preparing	for	an	exam.
It	read	like	an	Ian	Fleming	novel;	the	only	difference	was	that	he	was	cast	in	the	role	of	Commander
Bond.	As	Harry	turned	the	pages,	Martinez’s	life	unfolded	in	front	of	him.	When	he	took	a	break	for
dinner,	he	couldn’t	help	thinking	that	Emma	was	right,	they	should	never	have	allowed	Sebastian	to	go	on
being	involved	with	this	man.	It	was	far	too	big	a	risk.
However,	he’d	agreed	with	her	that	if	at	any	time	he	felt	their	son’s	life	was	in	danger,	he	would	return
to	London	on	the	next	plane	with	Sebastian	sitting	beside	him.	He	glanced	out	of	the	window.	Instead	of
flying	south,	he	and	William	Warwick	were	meant	to	be	on	their	way	up	north	that	morning	to	begin	a
book	tour.	He’d	been	looking	forward	to	meeting	Agatha	Christie	at	the	Yorkshire	Post	literary	lunch.
Instead,	he	was	heading	to	South	America,	hoping	to	avoid	Don	Pedro	Martinez.
He	closed	the	file,	returned	it	to	the	briefcase,	slid	it	under	the	seat	and	drifted	into	a	light	sleep,	but
‘the	subject’	never	left	him.	By	the	age	of	fourteen,	Martinez	had	left	school	and	begun	life	as	an
apprentice	in	a	butcher’s	shop.	He	was	fired	a	few	months	later	(reason	unknown),	and	the	only	skill	he
took	with	him	was	how	to	dismember	a	carcase.	Within	days	of	becoming	unemployed,	the	subject	had
drifted	into	petty	crime,	including	theft,	mugging,	and	raiding	slot	machines,	which	ended	with	him	being
arrested	and	sent	to	prison	for	six	months.
While	he	was	locked	up,	he	shared	a	cell	with	Juan	Delgado,	a	minor	criminal	who’d	spent	more	years
behind	bars	than	on	the	outside.	After	Martinez	had	served	his	sentence,	he	joined	Juan’s	gang	and	quickly
became	one	of	his	most	trusted	lieutenants.	When	Juan	was	arrested	yet	again	and	returned	to	jail,
Martinez	was	left	in	charge	of	his	dwindling	empire.	He	was	seventeen	at	the	time,	the	same	age	as
Sebastian,	and	he	looked	set	for	a	life	of	crime.	But	destiny	took	an	unexpected	turn	when	he	fell	in	love
with	Consuela	Torres,	a	telephone	operator	who	worked	on	the	international	exchange.	However,
Consuela’s	father,	a	local	politician	who	was	planning	to	run	for	mayor	of	Buenos	Aires,	made	it	clear	to
his	daughter	that	he	didn’t	want	a	petty	criminal	as	a	son-in-law.
Consuela	ignored	her	father’s	advice,	married	Pedro	Martinez,	and	gave	birth	to	four	children,	in	the
correct	South	American	order,	three	boys	followed	by	a	girl.	Martinez	finally	gained	his	father-in-law’s
respect	when	he	raised	the	necessary	cash	to	fund	his	victorious	election	campaign	for	mayor.
Once	the	mayor	had	taken	up	residence	in	city	hall,	there	were	no	municipal	contracts	that	didn’t	pass
through	Martinez’s	hands,	always	with	an	added	25	per	cent	‘service	charge’.	However,	it	wasn’t	long
before	the	subject	became	bored	with	both	Consuela	and	local	politics,	and	began	to	expand	his	interests
when	he	worked	out	that	a	European	war	meant	there	would	be	endless	opportunities	for	those	who	could
claim	neutrality.
Although	Martinez	was	naturally	inclined	to	support	the	British,	it	was	the	Germans	who	offered	himthe	opportunity	to	turn	his	small	fortune	into	a	large	one.
The	Nazi	regime	needed	friends	who	could	deliver,	and	although	the	subject	was	only	twenty-two	when
he	first	turned	up	in	Berlin	with	an	empty	order	book,	he	left	a	couple	of	months	later	with	demands	for
everything	from	Italian	pipelines	to	a	Greek	oil	tanker.	Whenever	he	attempted	to	close	a	deal,	the	subject
would	make	it	known	that	he	was	a	close	friend	of	Reichsführer	Heinrich	Himmler,	the	head	of	the	SS,
and	had	met	Herr	Hitler	himself	on	several	occasions.
For	the	next	ten	years,	the	subject	slept	in	aeroplanes	and	on	ships,	trains,	buses	and	once	even	a	horse
and	cart,	as	he	travelled	around	the	world,	ticking	off	a	long	list	of	German	requirements.
His	meetings	with	Himmler	became	more	frequent.	Towards	the	end	of	the	war,	when	an	Allied	victory
looked	inevitable	and	the	Reichsmark	collapsed,	the	SS	leader	began	paying	the	subject	in	cash;	crisp
English	five-pound	notes,	hot	off	the	Sachsenhausen	press.	The	subject	would	then	cross	the	border	and
bank	the	money	in	Geneva,	where	it	was	converted	into	Swiss	francs.
Long	before	the	war	had	ended,	Don	Pedro	had	amassed	a	fortune.	But	it	was	not	until	the	Allies	were
within	striking	distance	of	the	German	capital	that	Himmler	offered	him	the	opportunity	of	a	lifetime.	The
two	men	shook	hands	on	the	deal,	and	the	subject	left	Germany	with	twenty	million	pounds	in	forged	five-
pound	notes,	his	own	U-boat,	and	a	young	lieutenant	from	Himmler’s	personal	staff.	He	never	set	foot	in
the	fatherland	again.
On	his	arrival	back	in	Buenos	Aires,	the	subject	purchased	an	ailing	bank	for	fifty	million	pesos,	hid
his	twenty	million	pounds	in	the	vaults,	and	waited	for	the	surviving	members	of	the	Nazi	hierarchy	to	turn
up	in	Buenos	Aires	and	cash	in	their	retirement	policy.
The	ambassador	stared	down	at	the	ticker	tape	machine	as	it	clattered	away	in	the	far	corner	of	his	office.
A	message	was	being	sent	direct	from	London.	But	as	with	all	Foreign	Office	directives,	he	would
need	to	read	between	the	lines,	because	everyone	knew	that	the	Argentinian	secret	service	would	be
getting	the	message	at	the	same	time,	in	an	office	just	a	hundred	yards	up	the	road.
Peter	May,	the	captain	of	the	England	cricket	team,	will	be	opening	the	batting	on	the	first	day	of	the	Lord’s	Test	match	this	Saturday
at	ten	o’clock.	I	have	two	tickets	for	the	match,	and	I	hope	Captain	May	will	be	able	to	join	you.
The	ambassador	smiled.	He	was	well	aware,	as	was	any	English	schoolboy,	that	Test	matches	always
began	at	11.30	a.m	on	a	Thursday,	and	that	Peter	May	didn’t	open	the	batting.	But	then,	Britain	had	never
been	at	war	with	a	nation	that	played	cricket.
‘Have	we	met	before,	old	chap?’
Harry	quickly	closed	the	file	and	looked	up	at	a	middle-aged	man	who	clearly	lived	on	‘expenses’
lunches.	He	was	clinging	to	the	headrest	of	the	empty	seat	next	to	him	with	one	hand,	while	holding	a
glass	of	red	wine	in	the	other.
‘I	don’t	think	so,’	said	Harry.
‘I	could	have	sworn	we	had,’	the	man	said,	peering	down	at	him.	‘Perhaps	I’ve	mistaken	you	for
someone	else.’
Harry	heaved	a	sigh	of	relief	when	the	man	shrugged	and	walked	unsteadily	back	towards	his	seat	at
the	front	of	the	cabin.	He	was	just	about	to	open	the	file	again	and	continue	his	background	study	of
Martinez,	when	the	man	turned	round	and	made	his	way	slowly	back	towards	him.
‘Are	you	famous?’
Harry	laughed.	‘That’s	most	unlikely.	As	you	can	see,	I’m	a	BOAC	pilot,	and	have	been	for	the	pasttwelve	years.’
‘You	don’t	come	from	Bristol	then?’
‘No,’	said	Harry,	sticking	to	his	new	persona.	‘I	was	born	in	Epsom,	and	I	now	live	in	Ewell.’
‘It	will	come	to	me	in	a	moment	who	you	remind	me	of.’	Once	again	the	man	set	off	back	to	his	seat.
Harry	reopened	the	file,	but	like	Dick	Whittington	the	man	turned	a	third	time,	before	he	had	a	chance	to
read	even	another	line.	This	time	he	picked	up	Harry’s	captain’s	hat	and	collapsed	into	the	seat	beside
him.	‘You	don’t	write	books,	by	any	chance?’
‘No,’	said	Harry	even	more	firmly,	as	Miss	Carrick	appeared	carrying	a	tray	of	cocktails.	He	raised	his
eyebrows	and	gave	her	what	he	hoped	was	a	‘please	rescue	me’	look.
‘You	remind	me	of	an	author	who	comes	from	Bristol,	but	I’m	damned	if	I	can	remember	his	name.	Are
you	sure	you’re	not	from	Bristol?’	He	took	a	closer	look,	before	releasing	a	cloud	of	cigarette	smoke	in
Harry’s	face.
Harry	saw	Miss	Carrick	opening	the	door	of	the	cockpit.
‘It	must	be	an	interesting	life,	being	a	pilot—’
‘This	is	your	captain	speaking.	We	are	about	to	experience	some	turbulence,	so	would	all	passengers
please	return	to	their	seats	and	fasten	their	seat	belts.’
Miss	Carrick	reappeared	in	the	cabin	and	walked	straight	to	the	back	of	the	first-class	section.
‘I’m	sorry	to	bother	you,	sir,	but	the	captain	has	requested	that	all	passengers—’
‘Yes,	I	heard	him,’	said	the	man,	hauling	himself	up,	but	not	before	he’d	blown	another	cloud	of	smoke
in	Harry’s	direction.	‘It’ll	come	to	me,	who	you	remind	me	of,’	he	said,	before	making	his	way	slowly
back	to	his	seat.36
D URING	THE	SECOND 	leg	of	the	journey	to	Buenos	Aires,	Harry	completed	the	file	on	Don	Pedro	Martinez.
After	the	war,	the	subject	bided	his	time	in	Argentina,	sitting	on	a	mountain	of	cash.	Himmler	had
committed	suicide	before	coming	to	trial	at	Nuremberg,	while	six	of	the	henchmen	on	his	list	were
sentenced	to	death.	Eighteen	more	were	sent	to	prison,	including	Major	Bernhard	Krüger.	No	one	came
knocking	at	Don	Pedro’s	door	claiming	their	life	insurance.
Harry	turned	the	page	to	find	that	the	next	section	of	the	file	was	devoted	to	the	subject’s	family.	He
rested	for	some	time	before	he	continued.
Martinez	had	four	children.	His	first	born,	Diego,	was	expelled	from	Harrow	after	tying	a	new	boy	to	a
boiling-hot	radiator.	He	returned	to	his	native	land,	without	an	O	level	to	his	name,	where	he	joined	his
father	and,	three	years	later,	graduated	with	honours	in	crime.	Although	Diego	wore	pinstriped,	double-
breasted	suits	tailored	in	Savile	Row,	he	would	have	spent	most	of	his	time	in	a	prison	uniform	if	his
father	hadn’t	had	countless	judges,	police	officers	and	politicians	on	his	payroll.
His	second	son,	Luis,	immatured	from	boy	to	playboy	during	one	summer	vacation	on	the	Riviera.	He
now	spent	most	of	his	waking	hours	at	the	roulette	tables	in	Monte	Carlo,	gambling	with	his	father’s	five-
pound	notes	in	an	attempt	to	earn	them	back	in	a	different	currency.
Whenever	Luis	had	a	good	run,	a	flood	of	Monegasque	Francs	would	find	their	way	into	Don	Pedro’s
account	in	Geneva.	But	it	still	annoyed	Martinez	that	the	casino	was	making	a	better	return	than	he	was.
The	third	child,	Bruno,	was	not	a	chip	off	the	old	block,	as	he	displayed	far	more	of	his	mother’s
qualities	than	his	father’s	shortcomings,	although	Martinez	was	happy	to	remind	his	London	friends	that	he
had	a	son	who	would	be	going	up	to	Cambridge	in	September.
Little	was	known	about	the	fourth	child,	Maria-Theresa,	who	was	still	at	Roedean,	and	always	spent
the	holidays	with	her	mother.
Harry	stopped	reading	when	Miss	Carrick	set	up	a	dinner	table	for	him,	but	even	during	the	meal,	the
damn	man	lingered	in	his	mind.
During	the	years	after	the	war,	Martinez	set	about	building	up	his	bank’s	resources.	The	Family
Farmers	Friendly	Bank	operated	accounts	for	those	clients	who	possessed	land	but	not	money.	Martinez’s
methods	were	crude	but	effective.	He	would	loan	farmers	any	amount	of	money	they	required,	at
exorbitant	interest	rates,	as	long	as	the	loans	were	covered	by	the	value	of	the	farmers’	land.
If	customers	were	unable	to	make	their	quarterly	payment,	they	received	a	foreclosure	notice,	giving
them	ninety	days	to	clear	the	entire	debt.	If	they	failed	to	do	so,	and	almost	all	of	them	did,	the	deeds	for
the	land	were	confiscated	by	the	bank,	and	added	to	the	vast	acreage	Martinez	had	already	accumulated.
Anyone	who	complained	received	a	visit	from	Diego,	who	reshaped	their	face;	so	much	cheaper	and
more	effective	than	employing	lawyers.
The	only	thing	that	might	have	undermined	the	avuncular	cattle	baron	image	Martinez	had	worked	sohard	to	cultivate	in	London	was	the	fact	that	his	wife	Consuela	finally	came	to	the	conclusion	that	her
father	had	been	right	all	along,	and	sued	for	divorce.	As	the	proceedings	took	place	in	Buenos	Aires,
Martinez	told	anyone	in	London	who	asked,	that	Consuela	had	sadly	died	of	cancer,	thus	turning	any
possible	social	stigma	into	sympathy.
After	Consuela’s	father	failed	to	be	re-elected	as	mayor	–	Martinez	had	backed	the	opposition
candidate	–	she	ended	up	living	in	a	village	a	few	miles	outside	Buenos	Aires.	She	received	a	monthly
allowance,	which	didn’t	allow	her	many	shopping	trips	in	the	capital,	and	no	possibility	of	travelling
abroad.	And	sadly	for	Consuela,	only	one	of	her	sons	showed	any	interest	in	keeping	in	touch	with	her,
and	he	now	lived	in	England.
Only	one	person	who	was	not	a	member	of	the	Martinez	family	warranted	his	own	page	in	Harry’s	file:
Karl	Ramirez,	whom	Martinez	employed	as	a	butler/handyman.	Although	Ramirez	had	an	Argentinian
passport,	he	bore	a	striking	resemblance	to	one	Karl	Otto	Lunsdorf,	a	member	of	the	1936	German
Olympic	wrestling	team	who	later	became	a	lieutenant	in	the	SS,	specializing	in	interrogation.	Ramirez’s
paperwork	was	as	impressive	as	Martinez’s	five-pound	notes,	and	almost	certainly	came	from	the	same
source.
Miss	Carrick	cleared	away	the	dinner	tray	and	offered	Captain	May	brandy	and	a	cigar,	which	he
politely	declined,	after	thanking	her	for	the	turbulence.	She	smiled.
‘Turned	out	not	to	be	quite	as	bad	as	the	captain	had	originally	thought,’	she	said,	masking	a	grin.	‘He
asked	me	to	let	you	know	that,	if	you’re	staying	at	the	Milonga,	you’d	be	most	welcome	to	join	us	on	the
BOAC	bus,	which	would	allow	you	to	avoid	Mr	Bolton’	–	Harry	raised	an	eyebrow	–	‘the	man	from
Bristol,	who’s	absolutely	convinced	he’s	met	you	somewhere	before.’
Harry	couldn’t	help	noticing	that	Miss	Carrick	had	glanced	at	his	left	hand	more	than	once,	on	which	a
pale	band	of	skin	clearly	indicated	that	a	wedding	ring	had	been	removed.	Captain	Peter	May	had	been
divorced	from	his	wife	Angela	for	just	over	two	years.	They	had	two	children:	Jim,	aged	ten,	who	was
hoping	to	go	to	Epsom	College,	and	Sally,	aged	eight,	who	had	her	own	pony.	He	even	had	a	photograph
of	them	to	prove	it.	Harry	had	handed	his	ring	to	Emma	for	safe	keeping	just	before	he	departed.
Something	else	she	didn’t	approve	of.
‘London	has	asked	me	to	make	an	appointment	to	see	a	Captain	Peter	May	at	ten	o’clock	tomorrow
morning,’	said	the	ambassador.
His	secretary	made	a	note	in	the	diary.	‘Will	you	require	any	background	notes	on	Captain	May?’
‘No,	because	I	haven’t	a	clue	who	he	is,	or	why	the	Foreign	Office	wants	me	to	see	him.	Just	be	sure	to
bring	him	straight	to	my	office	the	moment	he	arrives.’
Harry	waited	until	the	last	passenger	had	disembarked	before	he	joined	the	crew.	After	he’d	been	checked
through	customs,	he	walked	out	of	the	airport	to	find	a	minibus	waiting	at	the	kerb.
The	driver	placed	his	suitcase	in	the	baggage	hold	as	Harry	climbed	on	board	to	be	greeted	by	a
smiling	Miss	Carrick.
‘May	I	join	you?’	he	asked.
‘Yes,	of	course,’	she	replied,	moving	over	to	make	room	for	him.
‘My	name’s	Peter,’	he	said	as	they	shook	hands.
‘Annabel.	What	brings	you	to	Argentina?’	she	asked	as	the	bus	made	its	way	into	the	city.
‘My	brother	Dick	works	out	here.	We	haven’t	seen	each	other	for	far	too	many	years,	so	I	thought	I
ought	to	make	the	effort	as	it’s	his	fortieth	birthday.’‘Your	older	brother?’	said	Annabel	with	a	grin.	‘What	does	he	do?’
‘He’s	a	mechanical	engineer.	He’s	been	working	on	the	Parana	Dam	project	for	the	past	five	years.’
‘Never	heard	of	it.’
‘No	reason	you	should	have.	It’s	in	the	middle	of	nowhere.’
‘Well	he’s	going	to	get	a	bit	of	a	culture	shock	when	he	comes	to	Buenos	Aires,	because	it’s	one	of	the
most	cosmopolitan	cities	on	earth,	and	certainly	my	favourite	stopover.’
‘How	long	will	you	be	here	this	time?’	said	Harry,	wanting	to	change	the	subject	before	he	ran	out	of
details	about	his	recently	adopted	family.
‘Forty-eight	hours.	Do	you	know	Buenos	Aires,	Peter?	If	you	don’t,	you’re	in	for	a	real	treat.’
‘No,	this	is	my	first	time,’	said	Harry,	word	perfect	so	far.	Don’t	lose	your	concentration,	Sir	Alan	had
warned	him,	because	that’s	when	you’ll	slip	up.
‘So	what	route	do	you	usually	fly?’
‘I’m	on	the	transatlantic	hop	–	New	York,	Boston	and	Washington.’	The	anonymous	man	from	the
Foreign	Office	had	settled	on	that	route	because	it	took	in	three	cities	Harry	had	visited	on	his	book	tour.
‘That	sounds	like	fun.	But	make	sure	you	sample	the	night	life	while	you’re	here.	The	Argentinians
make	the	Yanks	look	conservative.’
‘Anywhere	in	particular	I	should	take	my	brother?’
‘The	Lizard	has	the	best	tango	dancers,	but	I’m	told	the	Majestic	has	the	finest	cuisine,	not	that	I’ve
ever	experienced	it.	The	crew	usually	end	up	at	the	Matador	Club	on	Independence	Avenue.	So	if	you	and
your	brother	find	you’ve	got	time	on	your	hands,	you’d	be	welcome	to	join	us.’
‘Thank	you,’	said	Harry	as	the	bus	drew	up	outside	the	hotel.	‘I	might	just	take	you	up	on	that.’
He	carried	Annabel’s	case	into	the	hotel.
‘This	place	is	cheap	and	cheerful,’	she	said	as	they	checked	in,	‘so	if	you	want	a	bath	but	don’t	want	to
wait	for	the	water	to	heat	up,	it’s	best	to	have	it	last	thing	at	night,	or	first	thing	in	the	morning,’	she	added
as	they	stepped	into	the	one	lift.
When	they	reached	the	fourth	floor,	Harry	left	Annabel	and	stepped	out	into	a	badly	lit	corridor	before
making	his	way	to	room	469.	After	he’d	let	himself	in,	he	discovered	the	room	wasn’t	a	great
improvement	on	the	corridor.	A	large	double	bed	that	sank	in	the	middle,	a	tap	that	dripped	brown	water,
a	towel	rail	that	offered	one	face	cloth,	and	a	notice	informing	him	that	the	bathroom	was	at	the	end	of	the
corridor.	He	recalled	Sir	Alan’s	note,	We’ve	booked	you	into	a	hotel	Martinez	and	his	cronies	would
never	consider	visiting.	He’d	already	realized	why.	This	place	needed	his	mother	to	be	appointed	as	the
manager,	and	preferably	yesterday.
He	took	off	his	peaked	cap	and	sat	down	on	the	end	of	the	bed.	He	wanted	to	call	Emma	and	tell	her
how	much	he	missed	her,	but	Sir	Alan	couldn’t	have	been	clearer:	no	phone	calls,	no	night	clubs,	no
sightseeing,	no	shopping;	don’t	even	leave	the	hotel	until	it’s	time	to	visit	the	ambassador.	He	put	his	feet
up	on	the	bed	and	lowered	his	head	on	to	the	pillow.	He	thought	about	Sebastian,	Emma,	Sir	Alan,
Martinez,	the	Matador	Club	.	.	.	Captain	May	fell	asleep.37
W HEN 	H ARRY	WOKE ,	the	first	thing	he	did	was	to	turn	on	the	light	by	his	bed	and	check	his	watch:	2.26
a.m.	He	cursed	when	he	realized	he	hadn’t	undressed.
He	almost	fell	off	the	bed,	walked	across	to	the	window	and	stared	out	at	a	city	that	from	the	noise	of
the	traffic	and	the	sparkling	lights	was	clearly	still	wide	awake.	He	closed	the	curtains,	got	undressed	and
climbed	back	into	bed,	hoping	he	would	drop	off	again	quickly.	But	he	was	robbed	of	sleep	by	thoughts	of
Martinez,	Seb,	Sir	Alan,	Emma,	Giles	and	even	Jessica,	and	the	harder	he	tried	to	relax	and	dismiss	them
from	his	mind,	the	more	they	demanded	his	attention.
At	4.30	a.m.,	he	gave	up	and	decided	he	would	have	a	bath.	That’s	when	he	fell	asleep.	When	he	woke,
he	jumped	out	of	bed	and	pulled	back	the	curtains	to	see	the	first	rays	of	sunlight	bathing	the	city.	He
checked	the	time.	It	was	7.10	a.m.	He	felt	grubby,	and	smiled	at	the	thought	of	a	long,	hot	bath.
He	went	in	search	of	a	dressing	gown,	but	the	hotel	could	only	manage	a	thin	bath	towel	and	a	sliver	of
soap.	He	stepped	into	the	corridor	and	headed	for	the	bathroom.	A	sign	saying	Occupado	was	hanging	on
the	door	handle,	and	he	could	hear	someone	splashing	around	inside.	Harry	decided	to	wait,	so	no	one
would	take	his	place	in	the	queue.	When	the	door	eventually	opened	after	about	twenty	minutes,	Harry
came	face	to	face	with	the	one	man	he’d	hoped	never	to	see	again.
‘Good	morning,	captain,’	he	said,	blocking	his	path.
‘Good	morning,	Mr	Bolton,’	Harry	replied,	trying	to	edge	past	him.
‘No	rush,	old	fellow,’	he	said.	‘It	will	take	a	quarter	of	an	hour	for	the	tub	to	empty,	and	then	another
fifteen	minutes	to	fill	it	up	again.’	Harry	hoped	that	if	he	said	nothing,	Bolton	would	take	the	hint	and
move	on.	He	didn’t.	‘Your	exact	double,’	said	the	persistent	intruder,	‘writes	detective	novels.	The	weird
thing	is	that	I	can	remember	the	name	of	the	detective,	William	Warwick,	but	I’m	damned	if	I	can	recall
the	name	of	the	author.	It’s	on	the	tip	of	my	tongue.’
When	Harry	heard	the	last	few	drops	of	water	gurgling	down	the	drain,	Bolton	reluctantly	moved	aside,
allowing	him	to	enter	the	bathroom.
‘It’s	on	the	tip	of	my	tongue,’	Bolton	repeated	as	he	walked	off	down	the	corridor.
Harry	closed	the	door	and	locked	it,	but	no	sooner	had	he	turned	on	the	tap	than	there	was	a	knock	on
the	door.
‘How	long	are	you	going	to	be?’
By	the	time	there	was	enough	water	for	him	to	step	into	the	bath,	he	could	hear	two	people	holding	a
conversation	on	the	other	side	of	the	door.	Or	was	it	three?
The	bar	of	soap	only	just	lasted	long	enough	to	reach	his	feet,	and	by	the	time	he	had	dried	between	his
toes,	the	towel	was	soaking.	He	opened	the	bathroom	door	to	find	a	queue	of	disgruntled	guests,	and	tried
not	to	think	what	time	it	would	be	before	the	last	of	them	went	down	to	breakfast.	Miss	Carrick	was	right,
he	should	have	taken	a	bath	when	he	woke	in	the	middle	of	the	night.Once	he	was	back	in	his	room,	Harry	shaved	and	dressed	quickly,	realizing	that	he	hadn’t	eaten
anything	since	he’d	stepped	off	the	plane.	He	locked	his	room,	took	the	lift	down	to	the	ground	floor	and
strolled	across	the	lobby	to	the	breakfast	room.	As	he	entered,	the	first	person	he	spotted	was	Mr	Bolton,
sitting	on	his	own,	spreading	marmalade	on	a	piece	of	toast.	Harry	turned	and	fled.	He	thought	about	room
service,	but	not	for	long.
His	appointment	with	the	ambassador	wasn’t	until	ten	o’clock,	and	he	knew	from	his	notes	that	it	would
take	only	ten	to	fifteen	minutes	to	reach	the	embassy	on	foot.	He	would	have	gone	for	a	walk	and	looked
for	a	café	but	for	one	of	Sir	Alan’s	repeated	instructions:	no	unnecessary	exposure.	Nevertheless,	he
decided	to	leave	a	little	early	and	walk	slowly.	He	was	relieved	to	find	that	Mr	Bolton	wasn’t	lurking	in
the	corridor,	the	lift	or	the	lobby,	and	he	managed	to	make	it	out	of	the	hotel	without	a	further	encounter.
Three	blocks	to	the	right,	then	two	more	to	the	left,	and	he	would	find	himself	in	Plaza	de	Mayo,	the
tourist	guidebook	assured	him.	Ten	minutes	later,	it	was	proved	right.	Union	Jacks	were	being	raised	on
flagpoles	around	the	square,	and	Harry	could	only	wonder	why.
He	crossed	the	road,	not	easy	in	a	city	that	prided	itself	on	having	no	traffic	lights,	and	continued	down
Constitutional	Avenue,	stopping	for	a	moment	to	admire	a	statue	of	someone	called	Estrada.	His
instructions	told	him	that	if	he	kept	walking,	in	200	yards	he’d	come	to	a	set	of	wrought-iron	gates
emblazoned	with	the	royal	coat	of	arms.
Harry	found	himself	standing	outside	the	embassy	at	9.33.	Once	around	the	block:	9.43.	Once	again,
even	slower:	9.56.	Finally,	he	walked	through	the	gates,	across	a	pebbled	courtyard	and	up	a	dozen	steps,
where	a	large	double	door	was	opened	for	him	by	a	guard	whose	medals	indicated	that	they	had	served	in
the	same	theatre	of	war.	Lieutenant	Harry	Clifton	of	the	Texas	Rangers	would	have	liked	to	stop	and	chat
to	him,	but	not	today.	As	he	was	walking	towards	the	reception	desk	a	young	woman	stepped	forward	and
asked,	‘Are	you	Captain	May?’
‘Yes,	I	am.’
‘My	name	is	Becky	Shaw.	I’m	the	ambassador’s	private	secretary,	and	he’s	asked	me	to	take	you
straight	through	to	his	office.’
‘Thank	you,’	said	Harry.	She	led	him	down	a	red	carpeted	corridor,	at	the	end	of	which	she	stopped,
knocked	gently	on	an	imposing	double	door	and	entered	without	waiting	for	a	response.	Any	fears	Harry
might	have	had	of	the	ambassador	not	expecting	him	were	proving	unfounded.
He	entered	a	large	elegant	room	to	find	the	ambassador	sitting	behind	his	desk	in	front	of	a	vast	semi-
circle	of	windows.	His	Excellency,	a	small,	square-jawed	man	who	exuded	energy,	stood	up	and	walked
briskly	over	to	Harry.
‘How	nice	to	meet	you,	Captain	May,’	he	said,	shaking	him	firmly	by	the	hand.	‘Would	you	care	for	a
coffee,	and	perhaps	some	ginger	biscuits?’
‘Ginger	biscuits,’	repeated	Harry.	‘Yes	please.’
The	ambassador	nodded,	and	his	secretary	quickly	left	the	room,	closing	the	door	behind	her.
‘Now,	I	must	be	frank	with	you,	old	chap,’	said	the	ambassador	as	he	guided	Harry	towards	a	pair	of
comfortable	chairs	that	looked	out	on	to	the	embassy’s	manicured	lawn	that	boasted	several	beds	of	roses.
They	could	have	been	in	the	Home	Counties.	‘I	have	absolutely	no	idea	what	this	meeting	is	about,	except
that	if	the	cabinet	secretary	wants	me	to	see	you	urgently,	it	has	to	be	important.	He’s	not	a	man	given	to
wasting	anyone’s	time.’
Harry	removed	an	envelope	from	his	jacket	pocket	and	handed	it	to	the	ambassador,	along	with	the
thick	file	he	had	been	entrusted	with.
‘I	don’t	get	many	of	these,’	said	His	Excellency,	looking	at	the	crest	on	the	back	of	the	envelope.
The	door	opened	and	Becky	returned	with	a	tray	of	coffee	and	biscuits,	which	she	placed	on	the	table
between	them.	The	ambassador	opened	the	foreign	secretary’s	letter	and	read	it	slowly,	but	didn’t	say
anything	until	Becky	had	left	the	room.‘I	thought	there	was	nothing	new	I	could	learn	about	Don	Pedro	Martinez,	but	it	seems	you’re	about	to
prove	me	wrong.	Why	don’t	you	start	at	the	beginning,	Captain	May?’
‘My	name	is	Harry	Clifton,’	he	began,	and	two	cups	of	coffee	and	six	biscuits	later,	he	had	explained
why	he	was	staying	at	the	Hotel	Milonga	and	why	he’d	been	unable	to	telephone	his	son	and	let	him	know
that	he	should	return	to	England	immediately.
The	ambassador’s	response	took	Harry	by	surprise.	‘Do	you	know,	Mr	Clifton,	if	the	foreign	secretary
had	instructed	me	to	assassinate	Martinez,	I	would	have	carried	out	the	order	with	considerable	pleasure.
I	cannot	begin	to	imagine	how	many	lives	that	man	has	ruined.’
‘And	I	fear	my	son	may	be	next	in	line.’
‘Not	if	I	have	anything	to	do	with	it.	Now,	as	I	see	it,	our	first	priority	is	to	ensure	your	son’s	safety.
Our	second,	and	I	suspect	Sir	Alan	thinks	it’s	equally	important,	is	to	discover	how	Martinez	intends	to
smuggle	such	a	large	sum	of	money	through	customs.	It’s	clear	that	Sir	Alan	believes’	–	he	glanced	at	the
letter	–	‘that	your	son	might	be	the	one	person	who	can	find	out	how	he	plans	to	go	about	that.	Is	that	a	fair
assessment?’
‘Yes,	sir,	but	he	won’t	be	able	to	achieve	that	unless	I	can	speak	to	him	without	Martinez	being	aware
of	it.’
‘Understood.’	The	ambassador	leant	back,	closed	his	eyes	and	placed	his	fingertips	together	as	if	he
was	deep	in	prayer.	‘The	trick,’	he	said,	his	eyes	remaining	closed,	‘will	be	to	offer	Martinez	something
money	cannot	buy.’
He	jumped	up,	marched	across	to	the	window	and	stared	out	on	to	the	lawn,	where	several	members	of
his	staff	were	busying	themselves	preparing	for	a	garden	party.
‘You	said	that	Martinez	and	your	son	aren’t	due	to	arrive	in	Buenos	Aires	until	tomorrow?’
‘Their	SS	South	America	docks	at	around	six	tomorrow	morning,	sir.’
‘And	you’re	no	doubt	aware	of	the	imminent	arrival	of	Princess	Margaret,	on	an	official	visit?’
‘So	that’s	why	there	were	so	many	Union	Jacks	in	Plaza	de	Mayo.’
The	ambassador	smiled.	‘HRH	will	only	be	with	us	for	forty-eight	hours.	The	highlight	of	her	trip	will
be	a	garden	party	held	in	her	honour	here	at	the	embassy	on	Monday	afternoon,	to	which	the	great	and	the
good	of	Buenos	Aires	have	been	invited.	Martinez	was	not	included,	for	obvious	reasons,	despite	making
it	abundantly	clear	to	me	on	more	than	one	occasion	how	much	he	would	like	to	be.	But	if	my	plan	is	to
succeed,	we’re	going	to	have	to	move,	and	move	quickly.’
The	ambassador	swung	round	and	pressed	a	button	under	his	desk.	Moments	later	Miss	Shaw
reappeared,	pad	and	pencil	in	hand.
‘I	want	you	to	send	an	invitation	to	Don	Pedro	Martinez	for	the	royal	garden	party	on	Monday.’	If	his
secretary	was	surprised,	she	didn’t	show	it.	‘And	I	also	want	to	send	him	a	letter	at	the	same	time.’
He	closed	his	eyes,	clearly	composing	the	letter	in	his	mind.
‘Dear	Don	Pedro,	I	have	great	pleasure,	no,	particular	pleasure,	in	enclosing	an	invitation	to	the
embassy’s	garden	party,	at	which	we	will	be	particularly,	no,	no,	I’ve	already	used	“particular”,
especially	honoured	by	the	presence	of	Her	Royal	Highness	The	Princess	Margaret.	New	paragraph.	As
you	will	see,	the	invitation	is	for	you	and	a	guest.	Far	be	it	from	me	to	advise	you,	but	if	there	are	any
English	men	on	your	staff	who	might	be	able	to	attend,	I	think	Her	Royal	Highness	would	consider	that
appropriate.	I	look	forward	to	seeing	you,	yours	etc.	Did	that	sound	pompous	enough?’
‘Yes,’	said	Miss	Shaw	with	a	nod.	Harry	kept	his	mouth	shut.
‘And,	Miss	Shaw,	I’ll	sign	it	as	soon	as	you’ve	typed	it,	then	I	want	you	to	arrange	to	have	it	and	the
invitation	delivered	to	his	office	immediately,	so	it’s	on	his	desk	before	he	arrives	back	tomorrow
morning.’
‘What	date	should	I	put	on	it,	sir?’
‘Good	thinking,’	said	the	ambassador	as	he	glanced	at	the	calendar	on	his	desk.	‘What	date	did	yourson	leave	England,	Captain	May?’
‘Monday	June	the	tenth,	sir.’
The	ambassador	looked	at	the	calendar	once	again.	‘Date	it	the	seventh.	We	can	always	blame	its	late
arrival	on	the	postal	service.	Everyone	else	does.’	He	didn’t	speak	again	until	his	secretary	had	left	the
room.
‘Now,	Mr	Clifton,’	he	said,	returning	to	his	seat.	‘Let	me	tell	you	what	I	have	in	mind.’
Harry	didn’t	actually	witness	Sebastian,	accompanied	by	Martinez,	coming	down	the	gangway	of	the	SS
South	America	the	following	morning,	but	the	ambassador’s	secretary	did.	She	later	delivered	a	note	to
Harry’s	hotel,	confirming	that	they	had	arrived	and	asking	him	to	report	to	the	embassy’s	side	entrance	off
Dr	Luis	Agote	at	two	o’clock	the	following	afternoon,	a	full	hour	before	the	first	guests	were	due	to	turn
up	for	the	garden	party.
Harry	sat	on	the	end	of	the	bed,	wondering	if	the	ambassador	would	prove	right	when	he’d	said	that
Martinez	would	rise	to	the	bait	quicker	than	a	salmon	on	the	Tweed.	The	only	time	he’d	ever	fished,	the
salmon	had	ignored	him.
‘When	did	this	invitation	arrive?’	shouted	Martinez,	holding	the	gilt-edged	card	high	in	the	air.
‘It	was	hand-delivered	yesterday	morning	by	a	member	of	the	ambassador’s	personal	staff,’	said	his
secretary.
‘Not	like	the	British	to	send	out	an	invitation	that	late,’	said	Martinez	suspiciously.
‘The	ambassador’s	personal	secretary	rang	to	apologize.	She	told	me	they	hadn’t	received	replies	to	a
number	of	the	invitations	that	had	been	sent	out	by	post,	and	assumed	they’d	gone	astray.	In	fact	she	said	if
you	get	another	one	in	the	mail,	please	ignore	it.’
‘Damned	postal	service,’	said	Martinez.	He	passed	the	invitation	to	his	son,	and	began	to	read	the
ambassador’s	letter.
‘As	you	can	see	from	the	card,’	said	Martinez,	‘I	can	take	a	guest.	Would	you	like	to	join	me?’
‘You	must	be	joking,’	said	Diego.	‘I’d	rather	fall	to	my	knees	during	high	mass	at	the	cathedral	than	be
seen	bowing	and	scraping	at	an	English	garden	party.’
‘Then	perhaps	I’ll	take	young	Sebastian	with	me.	After	all,	he	is	the	grandson	of	a	lord,	so	there’s	no
harm	in	giving	the	impression	that	I’m	well	connected	with	the	British	aristocracy.’
‘Where	is	the	boy	now?’
‘I’ve	booked	him	into	the	Royal	Hotel	for	a	couple	of	days.’
‘What	reason	did	you	give	for	bringing	him	out	here	in	the	first	place?’
‘I	told	him	he	could	have	a	few	days’	holiday	in	Buenos	Aires	before	returning	to	England	with	a
consignment	I	need	delivered	to	Sotheby’s,	for	which	he	would	be	well	paid.’
‘Are	you	going	to	tell	him	what’s	in	the	crate?’
‘Certainly	not.	The	less	he	knows	the	better.’
‘Perhaps	I	ought	to	go	with	him,	just	to	make	sure	there	aren’t	any	slip-ups.’
‘No,	that	would	defeat	the	whole	purpose	of	the	exercise.	The	boy	will	return	to	England	on	the	Queen
Mary,	while	we	fly	to	London	a	few	days	later.	That	will	allow	him	to	slip	through	the	net	while	British
customs	concentrate	their	firepower	on	us.	And	we’ll	still	be	in	London	well	in	time	for	the	auction.’
‘Do	you	still	want	me	to	bid	on	your	behalf?’
‘Yes.	I	can’t	risk	involving	anyone	outside	the	family.’
‘But	isn’t	it	possible	that	someone	will	recognize	me?’‘Not	if	you’re	bidding	by	phone.’38
‘I F	YOU’LL	BE 	kind	enough	to	stand	here,	Mr	President,’	said	the	ambassador.	‘Her	Royal	Highness	will
come	to	you	first.	I’m	sure	you’ll	have	a	lot	to	talk	about.’
‘My	English	not	good,’	said	the	president.
‘Not	to	worry,	Mr	President,	HRH	is	used	to	coping	with	that	problem.’
The	ambassador	took	a	pace	to	his	right.	‘Good	afternoon,	Prime	Minister.	You	will	be	the	second
person	to	be	presented	to	the	princess,	once	she’s	finished	her	conversation	with	the	president.’
‘Could	you	remind	me	of	the	correct	way	to	address	Her	Majesty?’
‘Of	course,	sir,’	said	the	ambassador,	not	correcting	his	faux	pas.	‘Her	Royal	Highness	will	say	“Good
afternoon,	Prime	Minister”,	and	before	you	shake	hands,	you	should	bow.’	The	ambassador	gave	a	slight
nod	to	demonstrate.	Several	people	standing	nearby	began	to	practise	the	movement,	just	in	case.	‘Having
bowed,	you	will	then	say,	“Good	afternoon,	Your	Royal	Highness.”	She	will	open	the	conversation	with	a
subject	of	her	choice,	to	which	you	can	respond	appropriately.	It	is	not	considered	courteous	for	you	to
ask	her	any	questions,	and	you	should	address	her	as	ma’am,	which	rhymes	with	jam,	not	harm.	When	she
leaves	you	to	move	on	to	the	mayor,	you	bow	once	again,	and	say,	“Goodbye,	Your	Royal	Highness.”’
The	prime	minister	looked	perplexed.
‘HRH	should	be	with	us	in	a	few	minutes,’	said	the	ambassador,	before	moving	on	to	the	Mayor	of
Buenos	Aires.	He	gave	him	the	same	instructions,	before	adding,	‘Yours	will	be	the	last	official
presentation.’
The	ambassador	couldn’t	miss	Martinez,	who	had	placed	himself	a	couple	of	feet	behind	the	mayor.	He
could	see	that	the	young	man	standing	by	his	side	was	Harry	Clifton’s	son.	Martinez	headed	straight	for
the	ambassador,	leaving	Sebastian	in	his	wake.
‘Will	I	get	to	meet	Her	Majesty?’	he	asked.
‘I	was	hoping	to	present	you	to	Her	Royal	Highness.	So	if	you’d	be	kind	enough	to	stay	exactly	where
you	are,	Mr	Martinez,	I’ll	bring	her	across	as	soon	as	she’s	finished	talking	to	the	mayor.	But	I’m	afraid
that	does	not	include	your	guest.	The	princess	is	not	accustomed	to	having	to	speak	to	two	people	at	once,
so	perhaps	the	young	gentleman	would	be	kind	enough	to	stand	back	a	little.’
‘Of	course	he	will,’	said	Martinez,	without	consulting	Sebastian.
‘Now,	I’d	better	get	going,	or	this	show	will	never	get	off	the	ground.’	The	ambassador	made	his	way
across	the	crowded	lawn,	avoiding	stepping	on	the	red	carpet,	as	he	walked	back	into	his	office.
The	guest	of	honour	was	seated	in	a	corner	of	the	room,	smoking	a	cigarette	and	chatting	to	the
ambassador’s	wife.	A	long,	elegant	ivory	cigarette	holder	dangled	from	her	white	gloved	hand.
The	ambassador	bowed.	‘We’re	ready,	ma’am,	whenever	you	are.’
‘Then	let’s	get	on	with	it,	shall	we?’	said	the	princess,	taking	one	last	puff	before	stubbing	out	her
cigarette	in	the	nearest	ashtray.The	ambassador	accompanied	her	out	on	to	the	balcony,	where	they	paused	for	a	moment.	The
bandmaster	of	the	Scots	Guards	raised	his	baton,	and	the	band	began	to	play	the	unfamiliar	sound	of	the
guest’s	national	anthem.	Everyone	fell	silent,	and	most	of	the	men	copied	the	ambassador	and	stood
rigidly	to	attention.
When	the	last	chord	had	been	played,	Her	Royal	Highness	proceeded	slowly	down	the	red	carpet	and
on	to	the	lawn,	where	the	ambassador	first	introduced	her	to	President	Pedro	Aramburu.
‘Mr	President,	how	nice	to	see	you	again,’	the	princess	ventured.	‘Thank	you	for	a	most	fascinating
morning.	I	did	so	enjoy	seeing	the	assembly	in	session,	and	having	lunch	with	you	and	your	cabinet.’
‘We	were	honoured	to	have	you	as	our	guest,	ma’am,’	he	said,	delivering	the	one	sentence	he	had
rehearsed.
‘And	I	have	to	agree	with	you,	Mr	President,	when	you	said	that	your	beef	is	the	equal	of	anything	we
can	produce	in	the	Highlands	of	Scotland.’
They	both	laughed,	although	the	president	wasn’t	sure	why.
The	ambassador	glanced	over	the	president’s	shoulder,	checking	that	the	prime	minister,	the	mayor	and
Mr	Martinez	were	all	planted	in	their	correct	positions.	He	noticed	that	Martinez	couldn’t	take	his	eyes
off	the	princess.	He	gave	Becky	a	nod,	and	she	immediately	stepped	forward,	took	her	place	behind
Sebastian,	and	whispered,	‘Mr	Clifton?’
He	swung	round.	‘Yes?’	he	said,	surprised	anyone	knew	his	name.
‘I’m	the	ambassador’s	private	secretary.	He	has	asked	if	you	would	be	kind	enough	to	come	with	me.’
‘Shall	I	let	Don	Pedro	know?’
‘No,’	said	Becky	firmly.	‘This	will	only	take	a	few	minutes.’
Sebastian	looked	uncertain,	but	followed	her	as	she	weaved	her	way	through	the	chattering	crowd	of
morning	suits	and	cocktail	dresses,	and	entered	the	embassy	by	a	side	door	that	was	being	held	open	for
her.	The	ambassador	smiled,	pleased	that	the	first	part	of	the	operation	had	gone	so	smoothly.
‘I	will	indeed	pass	on	your	best	wishes	to	Her	Majesty,’	said	the	princess,	before	the	ambassador
guided	her	across	to	the	prime	minister.	Although	he	tried	to	concentrate	on	every	word	the	princess	was
saying	in	case	anything	needed	to	be	followed	up,	he	allowed	himself	the	occasional	glance	in	the
direction	of	his	study	window,	in	the	hope	of	spotting	Becky	coming	back	out	on	to	the	terrace,	which
would	be	the	sign	that	the	meeting	between	father	and	son	had	taken	place.
When	he	felt	that	the	princess	had	had	quite	enough	of	the	prime	minister,	he	moved	her	on	to	the	mayor.
‘How	nice	to	meet	you,’	said	the	princess.	‘Only	last	week,	the	Lord	Mayor	of	London	was	telling	me
how	much	he’d	enjoyed	visiting	your	city.’
‘Thank	you,	ma’am,’	the	mayor	replied.	‘I	am	looking	forward	to	returning	the	compliment	some	time
next	year.’
The	ambassador	glanced	in	the	direction	of	his	study,	but	there	was	still	no	sign	of	Becky.
The	princess	didn’t	last	long	with	the	mayor,	and	discreetly	made	it	clear	that	she	wanted	to	move	on.
The	ambassador	reluctantly	fell	in	with	her	wishes.
‘And	may	I	be	allowed,	ma’am,	to	present	one	of	the	city’s	leading	bankers,	Don	Pedro	Martinez,	who	I
am	sure	you	will	be	interested	to	know	spends	the	season	at	his	home	in	London	every	year.’
‘This	is	indeed	a	great	honour,	Your	Majesty,’	said	Martinez,	bowing	low,	before	the	princess	had	a
chance	to	speak.
‘Where	is	your	home	in	London?’	enquired	the	princess.
‘Eaton	Square,	Your	Majesty.’
‘How	very	nice.	I	have	a	lot	of	friends	who	live	in	that	part	of	town.’
‘If	that’s	the	case,	Your	Majesty,	perhaps	you’d	like	to	join	me	for	dinner	one	night.	Do	bring	along
anyone	you	like.’
The	ambassador	couldn’t	wait	to	hear	the	princess’s	reply.‘What	an	interesting	idea,’	she	managed,	before	rapidly	moving	on.
Martinez	bowed	low	once	again.	The	ambassador	hurried	after	his	royal	guest.	He	was	relieved	when
she	stopped	to	chat	to	his	wife,	but	the	only	sentence	he	caught	was,	‘What	a	frightful	little	man,	how	did
he	ever	get	invited?’
Once	again,	the	ambassador	glanced	towards	his	study,	and	breathed	a	sigh	of	relief	when	he	saw
Becky	walk	out	on	to	the	terrace	and	give	him	a	firm	nod.	He	tried	to	concentrate	on	what	the	princess
was	saying	to	his	wife.
‘Marjorie,	I’m	desperate	for	a	cigarette.	Do	you	think	I	could	escape	for	a	few	minutes?’
‘Yes,	of	course,	ma’am.	Shall	we	go	back	into	the	embassy?’
As	they	walked	away,	the	ambassador	turned	to	check	on	Martinez.	The	besotted	man	hadn’t	moved	an
inch.	His	eyes	were	still	firmly	fixed	on	the	princess,	and	he	didn’t	seem	to	notice	Sebastian	quietly
returning	to	his	place	just	a	few	feet	behind	him.
Once	the	princess	had	disappeared	out	of	sight,	Martinez	turned	and	beckoned	Sebastian	to	join	him.
‘I	was	the	fourth	person	to	meet	the	princess,’	were	his	opening	words.	‘Only	the	president,	the	prime
minister	and	the	mayor	were	presented	before	me.’
‘What	a	great	honour,	sir,’	said	Sebastian,	as	if	he’d	witnessed	the	whole	encounter.	‘You	must	be	very
proud.’
‘Humbled,’	said	Martinez.	‘This	has	been	one	of	the	great	days	of	my	life.	Do	you	know,’	he	added,	‘I
think	Her	Majesty	agreed	to	have	dinner	with	me	when	I’m	next	in	London.’
‘I	feel	guilty,’	said	Sebastian.
‘Guilty?’
‘Yes,	sir.	It	should	be	Bruno	who’s	standing	here	to	share	in	your	triumph,	not	me.’
‘You	can	tell	Bruno	all	about	it	once	you’re	back	in	London.’
Sebastian	watched	the	ambassador	and	his	secretary	walk	back	into	the	embassy,	and	wondered	if	his
father	was	still	there.
‘I’ve	only	got	as	long	as	it	takes	the	princess	to	smoke	a	cigarette,’	said	the	ambassador	as	he	burst	into
his	study,	‘but	I	couldn’t	wait	to	find	out	how	the	meeting	with	your	son	went.’
‘He	was	shocked	to	begin	with,	of	course,’	said	Harry	as	he	slipped	his	BOAC	jacket	back	on.	‘But
when	I	told	him	he	hadn’t	been	expelled,	and	they	were	still	expecting	him	at	Cambridge	in	September,	he
relaxed	a	little.	I	suggested	that	he	fly	back	to	England	with	me,	but	he	said	he’d	promised	to	take	a
package	to	Southampton	on	the	Queen	Mary,	and	that	as	Martinez	had	been	so	kind	to	him,	it	was	the	least
he	could	do.’
‘Southampton,’	repeated	the	ambassador.	‘Did	he	tell	you	what	was	in	the	package?’
‘No,	and	I	didn’t	press	him,	in	case	he	stumbled	on	the	real	reason	I’d	travelled	all	this	way.’
‘Wise	decision.’
‘I	also	thought	about	going	back	on	the	Queen	Mary	with	him,	but	I	realized	that	if	I	did	Martinez
would	soon	work	out	why	I	was	here.’
‘I	agree,’	said	the	ambassador.	‘So	how	did	you	leave	it?’
‘I	promised	I’d	be	there	to	meet	him	when	the	Queen	Mary	docks	at	Southampton.’
‘How	do	you	think	Martinez	will	react	if	Sebastian	tells	him	you’re	in	Buenos	Aires?’
‘I	suggested	it	might	be	wise	not	to	mention	it,	as	he’d	be	certain	to	want	Seb	to	fly	back	to	London
with	me,	so	he	agreed	to	say	nothing.’
‘So	now	all	I’ve	got	to	do	is	find	out	what’s	in	that	package,	while	you	get	back	to	London	before
someone	recognizes	you.’
‘I	can’t	begin	to	thank	you	for	all	you’ve	done,	sir,’	said	Harry.	‘I’m	painfully	aware	that	I’m	a
distraction	you	could	have	done	without	at	the	moment.’
‘Don’t	give	it	a	second	thought,	Harry.	I	haven’t	enjoyed	myself	so	much	in	years.	However,	it	might	bewise	for	you	to	slip	away	before—’
The	door	opened,	and	the	princess	walked	in.	The	ambassador	bowed,	as	Her	Royal	Highness	stared	at
the	man	dressed	in	a	BOAC	captain’s	uniform.
‘May	I	present	Captain	Peter	May,	ma’am,’	said	the	ambassador,	not	missing	a	beat.
Harry	bowed.
The	princess	took	the	cigarette	holder	out	of	her	mouth.	‘Captain	May,	how	nice	to	meet	you.’	Giving
Harry	a	closer	look,	she	added,	‘Have	we	met	before?’
‘No,	ma’am,’	Harry	replied.	‘I	have	a	feeling	I	would	remember	it	if	we	had.’
‘Very	droll,	Captain	May.’	She	gave	him	a	warm	smile	before	stubbing	out	her	cigarette.	‘Well,
ambassador,	ring	the	bell.	I	have	a	feeling	it’s	time	for	the	second	round.’
As	Mr	Matthews	accompanied	the	princess	out	on	to	the	lawn,	Becky	took	Harry	in	the	opposite
direction.	He	followed	her	down	the	back	stairs,	through	the	kitchen	and	out	of	the	tradesmen’s	entrance	at
the	side	of	the	building.
‘I	hope	you	have	a	pleasant	flight	home,	Captain	May.’
Harry	made	his	way	slowly	back	to	the	hotel,	with	several	thoughts	colliding	in	his	mind.	How	he
wanted	to	phone	Emma	to	let	her	know	that	he’d	seen	Sebastian,	and	that	he	was	safe	and	would	be
returning	to	England	in	a	few	days’	time.
After	he’d	arrived	back	at	the	hotel,	he	packed	his	few	belongings,	took	his	case	down	to	the
concierge’s	desk	and	asked	if	there	were	any	flights	to	London	that	evening.
‘I’m	afraid	it’s	too	late	to	get	you	on	this	afternoon’s	BOAC	flight,’	he	replied.	‘But	I	could	book	you
on	to	the	Pan	Am	flight	to	New	York	that	leaves	at	midnight,	and	from	there	you	could—’
‘Harry!’
Harry	swung	round.
‘Harry	Clifton!	I	knew	it	was	you.	Don’t	you	remember?	We	met	when	you	addressed	the	Bristol
Rotary	Club	last	year?’
‘You’re	mistaken,	Mr	Bolton,’	Harry	said.	‘My	name	is	Peter	May,’	he	added	as	Annabel	walked	past
them	carrying	a	suitcase.	He	strolled	across	to	join	her,	as	if	they’d	arranged	to	meet.
‘Let	me	help	you,’	he	said,	taking	her	case	and	walking	out	of	the	hotel	with	her.
‘Thank	you,’	said	Annabel,	looking	a	little	surprised.
‘My	pleasure.’	Harry	handed	their	suitcases	to	the	driver	and	followed	her	on	to	the	bus.
‘I	didn’t	realize	you	were	flying	back	with	us,	Peter.’
Neither	did	I,	Harry	wanted	to	tell	her.	‘My	brother	had	to	get	back.	Some	problem	with	the	dam.	But
we	had	a	great	party	last	night,	thanks	to	you.’
‘Where	did	you	end	up?’
‘I	took	him	to	the	Majestic	Hotel.	You	were	right,	the	food	is	sensational.’
‘Tell	me	more.	I’ve	always	wanted	to	have	a	meal	there.’
During	the	drive	to	the	airport,	Harry	had	to	invent	a	fortieth	birthday	present	(an	Ingersoll	watch),	and
a	three-course	meal	–	smoked	salmon,	steak,	of	course,	and	lemon	tart.	He	wasn’t	impressed	by	his
culinary	imagination,	and	was	grateful	Annabel	didn’t	ask	about	the	wines.	He	hadn’t	got	to	bed,	he	told
her,	until	three	in	the	morning.
‘I	wish	I’d	taken	your	advice	on	the	bath	as	well,’	said	Harry,	‘and	had	one	before	I	went	to	bed.’
‘I	took	one	at	4	a.m.	You’d	have	been	welcome	to	join	me,’	she	said,	as	the	bus	came	to	a	halt	outside
the	airport.
Harry	stuck	close	to	the	crew	as	they	made	their	way	through	customs	and	on	to	the	plane.	He	returned
to	the	back	corner	seat,	wondering	if	he’d	made	the	right	decision	or	if	he	should	have	stayed	put.	But	then
he	recalled	Sir	Alan’s	words,	so	oft	repeated.	If	your	cover	is	blown,	get	out,	and	get	out	quickly.	He	felt
sure	he	was	doing	the	right	thing	–	that	loudmouth	would	be	running	around	town	telling	everyone,	‘I’vejust	seen	Harry	Clifton	posing	as	a	BOAC	pilot.’
Once	the	other	passengers	had	settled	in	their	seats,	the	aircraft	taxied	out	on	to	the	runway.	Harry
closed	his	eyes.	The	briefcase	was	empty,	the	files	destroyed.	He	fastened	his	seat	belt	and	looked
forward	to	a	long,	uninterrupted	sleep.
‘This	is	your	captain	speaking.	I	have	turned	off	the	seat-belt	signs,	so	you	are	now	free	to	move	around
the	aircraft.’
Harry	closed	his	eyes	again.	He	was	just	dozing	off	when	he	heard	someone	slump	into	the	seat	next	to
him.
‘I’ve	worked	it	out,’	he	said,	as	Harry	opened	one	eye.	‘You	were	in	Buenos	Aires	to	do	research	for
your	next	book.	Am	I	right,	or	am	I	right?’SEBASTIAN	CLIFTON
195739
D ON 	P EDRO	WAS 	among	the	last	to	leave	the	garden	party,	and	not	until	he	was	finally	convinced	that	the
princess	would	not	be	returning.
Sebastian	joined	him	in	the	back	of	the	Rolls.	‘This	has	been	one	of	the	great	days	of	my	life,’	Don
Pedro	repeated.	Sebastian	remained	silent,	because	he	couldn’t	think	of	anything	new	to	say	on	the
subject.	Don	Pedro	was	clearly	drunk,	if	not	on	wine,	then	on	the	thought	of	mixing	with	royalty.	Sebastian
was	surprised	that	such	a	successful	man	could	be	so	easily	flattered.	Suddenly,	Martinez	changed	tack.
‘I	want	you	to	know,	my	boy,	that	if	you	ever	need	a	job,	there	will	always	be	one	for	you	in	Buenos
Aires.	The	choice	is	yours.	You	could	be	a	cowboy	or	a	banker.	Come	to	think	of	it,	there’s	not	a	great
deal	of	difference,’	he	said,	laughing	at	his	own	joke.
‘That’s	kind	of	you,	sir,’	said	Sebastian.	Although	he	wanted	to	tell	him	that	he	would	be	joining	Bruno
at	Cambridge	after	all,	he	thought	better	of	it,	because	he	would	have	to	explain	how	he’d	found	out.	But
he	was	already	beginning	to	wonder	why	his	father	had	come	halfway	round	the	world	just	to	tell	him	.	.	.
Don	Pedro	interrupted	his	thoughts	by	taking	a	wad	of	five-pound	notes	from	his	pocket,	peeling	off	ninety
pounds	and	handing	it	to	Sebastian.
‘I	always	believe	in	paying	in	advance.’
‘But	I	haven’t	done	the	job	yet,	sir.’
‘I	know	you’ll	keep	your	side	of	the	bargain.’	The	words	only	made	Sebastian	feel	more	guilty	about
his	little	secret,	and	if	the	car	hadn’t	come	to	a	halt	outside	Martinez’s	office,	he	might	have	ignored	his
father’s	advice.
‘Take	Mr	Clifton	back	to	his	hotel,’	Don	Pedro	instructed	his	driver.	Turning	to	Sebastian	he	said,	‘A
car	will	pick	you	up	on	Wednesday	afternoon	and	take	you	to	the	dock.	Make	sure	you	enjoy	your	last
couple	of	days	in	Buenos	Aires,	because	this	city	has	a	lot	to	offer	a	young	man.’
Harry	was	not	a	man	who	had	ever	felt	it	necessary	to	resort	to	foul	language,	even	in	his	books.	His
churchgoing	mother	simply	wouldn’t	have	approved.	However,	after	an	hour	of	listening	to	an	endless
monologue	on	Ted	Bolton’s	life,	from	his	daughter’s	responsibilities	as	a	senior-sixer	in	the	Girl	Guides,
in	which	she’d	won	badges	for	needlework	and	cookery,	to	his	wife’s	role	as	membership	secretary	of	the
Bristol	Mothers’	Union,	to	the	guest	speakers	he	had	booked	for	the	Rotary	Club	this	autumn,	not	to
mention	his	views	on	Marilyn	Monroe,	Nikita	Khrushchev,	Hugh	Gaitskell	and	Tony	Hancock,	he	finally
snapped.
He	opened	his	eyes	and	sat	up	straight.	‘Mr	Bolton,	why	don’t	you	bugger	off?’
To	Harry’s	surprise	and	relief,	Bolton	got	up	and	returned	to	his	seat	without	another	word.	Harry	fell
asleep	within	moments.Sebastian	decided	to	take	Don	Pedro’s	advice	and	make	the	most	of	his	last	two	days	in	the	city,	before
the	time	came	to	board	the	Queen	Mary	and	return	home.
After	breakfast	the	following	morning,	he	exchanged	four	of	his	five-pound	notes	for	three	hundred
pesos	and	left	the	hotel	to	go	in	search	of	the	Spanish	arcade,	where	he	hoped	to	find	a	present	for	his
mother	and	sister.	He	chose	a	brooch	set	in	rhodochrosite	for	his	mother,	in	a	pale	pink	shade	that	the
salesman	told	him	could	not	be	found	anywhere	else	in	the	world.	The	price	came	as	a	bit	of	a	shock,	but
then	Sebastian	remembered	what	he’d	put	his	mother	through	during	the	past	two	weeks.
As	he	strolled	along	the	promenade	on	his	way	back	to	the	hotel,	a	drawing	in	a	gallery	window	caught
his	eye	and	made	him	think	of	Jessica.	He	stepped	inside	to	take	a	closer	look.	The	dealer	assured	him
that	the	young	artist	had	a	future,	so	not	only	was	it	a	fine	still-life,	but	it	would	be	a	shrewd	investment.
And,	yes,	he	would	accept	English	money.	Sebastian	only	hoped	that	Jessica	would	feel	the	same	way
about	Fernando	Botero’s	Bowl	of	Oranges	as	he	did.
The	only	thing	he	bought	for	himself	was	a	magnificent	leather	belt	with	a	rancher’s	buckle.	It	wasn’t
cheap,	but	he	couldn’t	resist	it.
He	stopped	to	have	lunch	in	a	street	café,	and	ate	too	much	Argentinian	roast	beef	while	he	read	an	out-
of-date	copy	of	The	Times.	Double	yellow	lines	were	to	be	introduced	in	all	major	British	city	centres.
He	couldn’t	believe	his	uncle	Giles	would	have	voted	for	that.
After	lunch,	with	the	help	of	his	guidebook,	he	found	the	only	cinema	showing	English-language	films
in	Buenos	Aires.	He	sat	alone	in	the	back	row	watching	A	Place	in	the	Sun,	fell	in	love	with	Elizabeth
Taylor,	and	wondered	how	you	got	to	meet	a	girl	like	that.
On	his	way	back	to	the	hotel,	he	dropped	into	a	secondhand	bookshop	that	boasted	a	shelf	of	English
novels.	He	smiled	when	he	saw	his	father’s	first	book	had	been	reduced	to	three	pesos,	and	left	after	he’d
purchased	a	much-thumbed	copy	of	Officers	and	Gentlemen.
In	the	evening,	Sebastian	had	dinner	in	the	hotel	restaurant	and,	with	the	help	of	his	guidebook,	selected
several	places	of	interest	he	still	hoped	to	visit	if	he	had	time:	the	Catedral	Metropolitana,	the	Museo
Nacional	de	Bellas	Artes,	La	Casa	Rosada,	and	the	Jardín	Botánico	Carlos	Thays	in	the	old	Palermo
neighbourhood.	Don	Pedro	was	right	–	the	city	had	a	lot	to	offer.
He	signed	the	bill,	and	decided	to	return	to	his	room	and	continue	reading	Evelyn	Waugh.	He	would
have	done	just	that	if	he	hadn’t	noticed	her	sitting	on	a	stool	at	the	bar.	She	gave	him	a	coquettish	smile,
which	stopped	him	in	his	tracks.	The	second	smile	acted	like	a	magnet,	and	moments	later	he	was	standing
by	her	side.	She	looked	about	the	same	age	as	Ruby,	but	much	more	alluring.
‘Would	you	like	to	buy	me	a	drink?’	she	asked.
Sebastian	nodded	as	he	climbed	on	to	the	stool	next	to	her.	She	turned	to	the	barman	and	ordered	two
glasses	of	champagne.
‘My	name	is	Gabriella.’
‘Sebastian,’	he	said,	offering	his	hand.	She	shook	it.	He’d	had	no	idea	a	woman’s	touch	could	have	that
effect	on	him.
‘Where	do	you	come	from?’
‘England,’	he	replied.
‘I’m	going	to	visit	England	one	day.	The	Tower	of	London	and	Buckingham	Palace,’	she	said,	as	the
barman	poured	them	two	glasses	of	champagne.	‘Cheers.	Isn’t	that	what	the	English	say?’
Sebastian	raised	his	glass	and	said,	‘Cheers.’	He	found	it	difficult	not	to	stare	at	her	slim,	graceful	legs.
He	wanted	to	touch	them.
‘Are	you	staying	at	the	hotel?’	she	asked,	placing	a	hand	on	his	thigh.
Sebastian	was	glad	the	lights	in	the	bar	were	so	muted	she	wasn’t	able	to	see	the	colour	of	his	cheeks.‘Yes,	I	am.’
‘And	are	you	alone?’	she	said,	not	removing	her	hand.
‘Yes,’	he	managed.
‘Would	you	like	me	to	come	up	to	your	room,	Sebastian?’
He	couldn’t	believe	his	luck.	He’d	found	Ruby	in	Buenos	Aires,	and	the	headmaster	was	7,000	miles
away.	He	didn’t	need	to	reply,	because	she	had	already	slipped	off	the	stool,	taken	him	by	the	hand	and
was	leading	him	out	of	the	bar.
They	headed	towards	a	bank	of	lifts	on	the	far	side	of	the	lobby.
‘What’s	your	room	number,	Sebastian?’
‘One	one	seven	zero,’	he	said,	as	they	stepped	into	the	lift.
When	they	reached	his	room	on	the	eleventh	floor,	Sebastian	fumbled	with	his	key	as	he	tried	to	open
the	door.	She	began	to	kiss	him	even	before	they’d	stepped	inside,	and	went	on	kissing	him	as	she	deftly
removed	his	jacket	and	unbuckled	his	belt,	only	stopping	when	his	trousers	fell	to	the	floor.
When	he	opened	his	eyes,	he	found	her	blouse	and	skirt	had	joined	them.	He	wanted	to	just	stand	there
and	admire	her	body,	but	once	again	she	took	him	by	the	hand,	this	time	guiding	him	towards	the	bed.	He
pulled	off	his	shirt	and	tie,	desperate	to	touch	every	part	of	her	at	once.	She	fell	back	on	the	bed	and
pulled	him	on	top	of	her.	Moments	later	he	let	out	a	loud	sigh.
He	lay	still	for	a	few	seconds	before	she	slipped	out	from	under	him,	gathered	up	her	clothes	and
disappeared	into	the	bathroom.	He	pulled	the	sheet	over	his	naked	body	and	impatiently	waited	for	her	to
return.	He	was	looking	forward	to	spending	the	rest	of	the	night	with	this	goddess,	and	wondered	how
many	times	he	could	make	love	before	the	morning.	But	when	the	bathroom	door	opened,	Gabriella
stepped	out,	fully	dressed,	and	looked	as	if	she	was	about	to	leave.
‘Was	that	your	first	time?’	she	asked.
‘Of	course	not.’
‘I	thought	so,’	she	said.	‘But	it’s	still	three	hundred	pesos.’
Sebastian	sat	bolt	upright,	not	sure	what	she	meant.
‘You	don’t	think	it	was	your	good	looks	and	English	charm	that	persuaded	me	to	come	up	to	your
room?’
‘No,	of	course	not,’	said	Sebastian.	He	got	off	the	bed,	picked	up	his	jacket	from	the	floor	and	took	out
his	wallet.	He	stared	at	the	remaining	five-pound	notes.
‘Twenty	pounds,’	she	said,	obviously	having	come	across	this	problem	before.
He	took	out	four	five-pound	notes	and	handed	them	to	her.
She	took	the	money	and	disappeared	even	more	quickly	than	he	had	come.
When	the	plane	finally	touched	down	at	London	Airport,	Harry	took	advantage	of	his	uniform	and	joined
the	crew	as	they	strolled	unhindered	through	customs.	He	declined	Annabel’s	offer	to	accompany	her	on
the	bus	into	London,	and	instead	joined	the	long	queue	for	a	taxi.
Forty	minutes	later,	the	cab	came	to	a	halt	outside	Giles’s	house	in	Smith	Square.	Looking	forward	to	a
long	bath,	an	English	meal	and	a	good	night’s	sleep,	Harry	banged	on	the	brass	knocker,	hoping	Giles
would	be	at	home.
A	few	moments	later,	the	door	swung	open,	and	when	Giles	saw	him	he	burst	out	laughing,	stood	to
attention	and	saluted.
‘Welcome	home,	captain.’When	Sebastian	woke	the	next	morning,	the	first	thing	he	did	was	to	check	his	wallet.	He	only	had	ten
pounds	left,	and	he’d	hoped	to	start	life	at	Cambridge	having	saved	eighty.	As	he	looked	at	his	clothes
strewn	across	the	floor,	even	his	new	leather	belt	had	lost	its	allure.	This	morning	he	would	only	be	able
to	visit	places	with	no	entrance	charge.
Uncle	Giles	had	been	right	when	he’d	told	him	there	are	defining	moments	in	one’s	life	when	you	learn
a	lot	about	yourself,	and	you	deposit	that	knowledge	in	the	experience	account,	so	you	can	draw	on	it	at
some	later	date.
Once	Sebastian	had	packed	his	few	belongings	and	gathered	up	his	presents,	his	thoughts	turned	to
England,	and	starting	life	as	an	undergraduate.	He	couldn’t	wait.	When	he	stepped	out	of	the	lift	on	the
ground	floor,	he	was	surprised	to	see	Don	Pedro’s	chauffeur,	peaked	cap	under	his	arm,	standing	in	the
lobby.	He	put	the	cap	back	on	the	moment	he	saw	Sebastian,	and	said,	‘Boss	wants	to	see	you.’
Sebastian	climbed	into	the	back	of	the	Rolls-Royce,	glad	to	have	an	opportunity	to	thank	Don	Pedro	for
all	he’d	done,	although	he	wasn’t	going	to	admit	that	he	was	down	to	his	last	ten	pounds.	On	arrival	at
Martinez	House,	he	was	shown	straight	through	to	Don	Pedro’s	office.
‘Sebastian,	I	am	sorry	to	drag	you	in	like	this,	but	a	small	problem	has	arisen.’
Sebastian’s	heart	sank	as	he	feared	he	wasn’t	going	to	be	allowed	to	escape.	‘A	problem?’
‘I	had	a	call	from	my	friend	Mr	Matthews	at	the	British	Embassy	this	morning.	He	pointed	out	that
you’d	entered	the	country	without	a	passport.	I	told	him	you’d	travelled	on	my	ship,	and	that	while	you
were	in	Buenos	Aires	you	were	my	guest,	but,	as	he	explained,	that	won’t	help	you	get	back	into	Britain.’
‘Does	that	mean	I’ll	miss	the	ship?’	Sebastian	couldn’t	hide	his	dismay.
‘Certainly	not,’	said	Martinez.	‘My	driver	will	take	you	to	the	embassy	on	the	way	to	the	port,	and	the
ambassador	has	promised	there	will	be	a	passport	for	you	at	reception.’
‘Thank	you,’	said	Sebastian.
‘Of	course,	it	helps	that	the	ambassador	is	a	personal	friend,’	said	Martinez	with	a	smile.	He	then
handed	him	a	thick	envelope	and	said,	‘Be	sure	you	hand	this	in	to	customs	when	you	land	at
Southampton.’
‘Is	this	the	package	I’m	meant	to	take	back	to	England?’	asked	Sebastian.
‘No,	no,’	said	Martinez,	laughing.	‘These	are	just	the	export	documents	to	verify	what’s	in	the	crate.	All
you	have	to	do	is	present	them	to	customs,	and	then	Sotheby’s	will	take	over.’
Sebastian	had	never	heard	of	Sotheby’s,	and	made	a	mental	note	of	the	name.
‘And	Bruno	rang	last	night	to	say	he’s	looking	forward	to	seeing	you	once	you’re	back	in	London,	and
hopes	you’ll	stay	with	him	at	Eaton	Square.	After	all,	it	must	be	a	better	alternative	than	a	guest	house	in
Paddington.’
Sebastian	thought	about	Tibby,	and	would	have	liked	to	tell	Don	Pedro	that	the	Safe	Haven	guest	house
was	the	equal	of	the	Majestic	Hotel	in	Buenos	Aires.	‘Thank	you,	sir,’	was	all	he	said.
‘Bon	voyage,	and	just	make	sure	that	Sotheby’s	picks	up	my	package.	Once	you	get	to	London,	let	Karl
know	you’ve	delivered	it	and	remind	him	that	I’ll	be	back	on	the	Monday.’
He	stepped	out	from	behind	his	desk,	gripped	Sebastian	by	the	shoulders	and	kissed	him	on	both
cheeks.	‘I	look	upon	you	as	my	fourth	son.’
Don	Pedro’s	first	son	was	standing	by	the	window	in	his	office	on	the	floor	below	when	Sebastian	left
the	building	carrying	a	thick	envelope	worth	eight	million	pounds.	He	watched	as	Sebastian	climbed	into
the	back	of	the	Rolls,	but	didn’t	move	until	he’d	seen	the	driver	ease	away	from	the	kerbside	to	join	the
morning	traffic.
Diego	ran	up	the	stairs	and	joined	his	father.
‘Is	the	statue	safely	on	board?’	Don	Pedro	asked	once	the	door	had	been	closed.
‘I	watched	it	being	lowered	into	the	hold	earlier	this	morning.	But	I’m	still	not	convinced.’
‘About	what?’‘There’s	eight	million	pounds	of	your	money	hidden	in	that	statue,	and	not	one	of	our	team	on	board	to
keep	an	eye	on	it.	You’ve	left	a	boy,	barely	out	of	school,	responsible	for	the	entire	operation.’
‘Which	is	exactly	why	no	one	will	take	any	interest	in	the	statue,	or	him,’	said	Don	Pedro.	‘The
paperwork	is	in	the	name	of	Sebastian	Clifton,	and	all	he	has	to	do	is	present	the	manifest	to	customs,	sign
the	release	form,	and	then	Sotheby’s	will	take	over,	with	no	suggestion	that	we	are	in	any	way	involved.’
‘Let’s	hope	you’re	right.’
‘When	we	arrive	at	London	Airport	that	Monday,’	said	Don	Pedro,	‘my	bet	is	that	there	will	be	at	least
a	dozen	customs	officers	crawling	all	over	our	luggage.	All	they’ll	discover	is	the	brand	of	aftershave	I
prefer,	by	which	time	the	statue	will	be	safely	at	Sotheby’s	awaiting	the	opening	bid.’
When	Sebastian	walked	into	the	embassy	to	pick	up	his	passport,	he	was	surprised	to	find	Becky	standing
by	the	reception	desk.	‘Good	morning,’	she	said.	‘The	ambassador	is	looking	forward	to	meeting	you,’
and	without	another	word,	she	turned	and	walked	down	the	corridor	towards	Mr	Matthews’s	office.
Sebastian	followed	her	for	a	second	time,	wondering	if	his	father	was	on	the	other	side	of	that	door	and
would	be	coming	back	to	England	with	him.	He	hoped	so.	Becky	gave	a	gentle	tap,	opened	the	door	and
stood	to	one	side.
The	ambassador	was	staring	out	of	the	window	when	Sebastian	entered	the	room.	The	moment	he	heard
the	door	open,	he	turned,	marched	across	and	shook	Sebastian	warmly	by	the	hand.
‘I’m	glad	to	meet	you	at	last,’	he	said.	‘I	wanted	to	give	you	this	in	person,’	he	added,	picking	up	a
passport	from	his	desk.
‘Thank	you,	sir,’	said	Sebastian.
‘Can	I	also	just	check	that	you	won’t	be	taking	more	than	a	thousand	pounds	into	Britain?	Wouldn’t
want	you	to	break	the	law.’
‘I’m	down	to	my	last	ten	pounds,’	Seb	admitted.
‘If	that’s	all	you’ve	got	to	declare,	you	should	sail	through	customs.’
‘Except	that	I’m	delivering	a	sculpture	on	behalf	of	Don	Pedro	Martinez	that’s	to	be	collected	by
Sotheby’s.	I	don’t	know	anything	about	it,	except	that	according	to	the	manifest	it’s	called	The	Thinker,
and	it	weighs	two	tons.’
‘Mustn’t	keep	you,’	said	the	ambassador	as	he	accompanied	him	to	the	door.	‘By	the	way,	Sebastian,
what’s	your	middle	name?’
‘Arthur,	sir,’	he	said	as	he	stepped	back	into	the	corridor.	‘I	was	named	after	my	grandfather.’
‘Have	a	pleasant	voyage,	my	boy,’	were	Mr	Matthews’s	last	words	before	he	closed	the	door.	He
returned	to	his	desk	and	wrote	three	names	on	his	pad.40
‘I	 RECEIVED	THIS 	communiqué	yesterday	morning	from	Philip	Matthews,	our	ambassador	in	Argentina,’
said	the	cabinet	secretary,	handing	out	copies	to	everyone	seated	around	the	table.	‘Please	read	it
carefully.’
After	Sir	Alan	had	received	the	sixteen-page	communiqué	from	Buenos	Aires	on	his	ticker	tape
machine,	he’d	spent	the	rest	of	the	morning	checking	each	paragraph	carefully.	He	knew	that	what	he	was
looking	for	would	be	secreted	among	the	reams	of	trivia	about	what	Princess	Margaret	had	been	up	to	on
her	official	visit	to	the	city.
He	was	puzzled	about	why	the	ambassador	had	invited	Martinez	to	the	royal	garden	party,	and	even
more	surprised	to	discover	that	he	had	been	presented	to	Her	Royal	Highness.	He	assumed	that	Matthews
must	have	had	a	good	reason	for	flouting	protocol	in	this	way,	and	hoped	there	wasn’t	a	photograph	filed
away	in	some	newspaper	cuttings	library	to	remind	everyone	of	the	occasion	at	some	time	in	the	future.
It	was	just	before	midday	when	Sir	Alan	came	across	the	paragraph	he’d	been	searching	for.	He	asked
his	secretary	to	cancel	his	lunch	appointment.
Her	Royal	Highness	was	gracious	enough	to	bring	me	up	to	date	on	the	result	of	the	first	Test	match
at	Lord’s,	wrote	the	ambassador.	What	a	splendid	effort	by	Captain	Peter	May,	and	such	a	pity	that	he
was	run	out	unnecessarily	at	the	last	minute.
Sir	Alan	looked	up	and	smiled	at	Harry	Clifton,	who	was	also	engrossed	in	the	communiqué.
I	was	delighted	to	learn	that	Arthur	Barrington	will	be	returning	for	the	second	Test	in	Southampton
on	Sunday	23rd	June,	because	with	a	test	average	of	just	over	8,	it	could	make	all	the	difference	for
England.
Sir	Alan	had	underlined	the	words	Arthur,	Sunday,	Southampton,	and	the	number	8,	before	he	continued
reading.
However,	I	was	puzzled	when	HRH	told	me	that	Tate	would	be	a	welcome	edition	at	No.	5,	but	she
assured	me	that	no	less	a	figure	than	John	Rothenstein,	the	director	of	cricket,	had	told	her,	which	had
me	thinking.
The	cabinet	secretary	underlined	Tate,	No.	5,	edition	and	Rothenstein,	before	he	continued	reading.
I	shall	be	returning	to	London	in	Auguste,	well	in	time	to	see	the	last	Test	at	Millbank,	so	let	us	hope
by	then	we’ve	won	the	series	of	nine.	And,	by	the	way,	that	particular	pitch	will	need	a	two-ton	roller.
This	time	Sir	Alan	had	underlined	Auguste,	Millbank,	nine	and	two-ton.	He	was	beginning	to	wish	he’d
taken	a	greater	interest	in	cricket	when	he	was	at	Shrewsbury,	but	then	he’d	been	a	wet	bob,	not	a	dry	bob.
However,	as	Sir	Giles,	who	was	sitting	at	the	end	of	the	table,	had	been	awarded	an	Oxford	cricket	blue,
he	was	confident	that	the	intricacies	of	leather	upon	willow	were	about	to	be	explained	to	him.
Sir	Alan	was	pleased	to	see	that	everyone	appeared	to	have	finished	reading	the	communiqué,	although
Mrs	Clifton	was	still	making	notes.‘I	think	I’ve	worked	out	most	of	what	our	man	in	Buenos	Aires	is	trying	to	tell	us,	but	there	are	still	one
or	two	niceties	that	are	eluding	me.	For	example,	I’ll	need	some	help	on	Arthur	Barrington,	because	even
I	know	the	great	Test	batsman	is	called	Ken.’
‘Sebastian’s	middle	name	is	Arthur,’	said	Harry.	‘So	I	think	we	can	assume	that	he	will	be	arriving	in
Southampton	on	Sunday	June	the	twenty-third,	because	Test	matches	are	never	played	on	a	Sunday,	and
there	isn’t	a	Test	ground	at	Southampton.’
The	cabinet	secretary	nodded.
‘And	eight	must	be	how	many	million	pounds	the	ambassador	thinks	is	involved,’	suggested	Giles	from
the	far	end	of	the	table,	‘because	Ken	Barrington’s	Test	average	is	over	fifty.’
‘Very	good,’	said	Sir	Alan,	making	a	note.	‘But	I’m	unable	to	explain	why	Matthews	misspelt	addition
as	edition,	and	August	as	Auguste.’
‘And	Tate,’	said	Giles.	‘Because	Maurice	Tate	used	to	bat	for	England	at	number	nine,	certainly	not
number	five.’
‘That	also	had	me	stumped,’	said	Sir	Alan,	amused	by	his	own	little	play	on	words.	‘But	can	anyone
explain	the	two	misspellings?’
‘I	think	I	can,’	said	Emma.	‘My	daughter	Jessica	is	an	artist,	and	I	remember	her	telling	me	that	many
sculptors	cast	nine	editions	of	their	work,	which	are	then	stamped	and	numbered.	And	the	spelling	of
Auguste	hints	at	the	identity	of	the	artist.’
‘I’m	still	none	the	wiser,’	said	Sir	Alan,	and	from	the	expressions	around	the	table,	it	was	clear	that	he
was	not	alone.
‘It	has	to	be	Renoir	or	Rodin,’	said	Emma.	‘And	as	it	wouldn’t	be	possible	to	conceal	eight	million
pounds	in	an	oil	painting,	I	suspect	you’ll	find	it’s	been	hidden	in	a	two-ton	sculpture	by	Auguste	Rodin.’
‘And	is	he	hinting	that	Sir	John	Rothenstein,	the	director	of	the	Tate	Gallery	on	Millbank,	will	be	able
to	tell	me	which	sculpture?’
‘He’s	already	told	us,’	said	Emma	triumphantly.	‘It’s	one	of	the	words	you	failed	to	underline,	Sir
Alan.’	Emma	was	unable	to	resist	a	smirk.	‘My	late	mother	would	have	spotted	it	long	before	I	did,	even
on	her	death	bed.’
Both	Harry	and	Giles	smiled.
‘And	what	word	did	I	fail	to	underline,	Mrs	Clifton?’
No	sooner	had	Emma	answered	the	question,	than	the	cabinet	secretary	picked	up	the	phone	by	his	side
and	said,	‘Call	John	Rothenstein	at	the	Tate,	and	make	an	appointment	for	me	to	see	him	this	evening	after
the	gallery	has	closed.’
Sir	Alan	put	the	phone	down	and	smiled	at	Emma.	‘I’ve	always	been	an	advocate	of	employing	more
women	in	the	Civil	Service.’
‘I	do	hope,	Sir	Alan,	that	you’ll	underline	more	and	women,’	said	Emma.
Sebastian	stood	on	the	upper	deck	of	the	Queen	Mary	and	leaned	over	the	railings	as	Buenos	Aires
receded	in	the	distance	until	it	looked	like	no	more	than	a	traced	outline	on	an	architect’s	drawing	board.
So	much	had	happened	in	the	short	time	since	he’d	been	rusticated	from	Beechcroft,	although	he	was
still	puzzled	why	his	father	had	travelled	all	that	way	just	to	let	him	know	he	hadn’t	lost	his	place	at
Cambridge.	Wouldn’t	it	have	been	a	lot	easier	just	to	phone	the	ambassador,	who	clearly	knew	Don
Pedro?	And	why	had	the	ambassador	personally	given	him	his	passport,	when	Becky	could	have	handed	it
to	him	at	the	reception	desk?	And	even	stranger,	why	had	the	ambassador	wanted	to	know	his	middle
name?	He	still	didn’t	have	any	answers	to	these	questions	by	the	time	Buenos	Aires	had	disappeared	from
sight.	Perhaps	his	father	would	supply	them.He	turned	his	thoughts	to	the	future.	His	first	responsibility,	for	which	he	had	already	been	handsomely
recompensed,	was	to	ensure	that	Don	Pedro’s	sculpture	passed	smoothly	through	customs,	and	he	didn’t
intend	to	leave	the	dockside	until	Sotheby’s	had	picked	it	up.
But	until	then,	he	decided	to	relax	and	enjoy	the	voyage.	He	intended	to	read	the	last	few	pages	of
Officers	and	Gentlemen,	and	hoped	he	might	find	the	first	volume	in	the	ship’s	library.
Now	that	he	was	on	the	way	home,	he	felt	he	should	give	some	thought	to	what	he	could	achieve	in	his
first	year	at	Cambridge	that	would	impress	his	mother.	That	was	the	least	he	could	do	after	all	the	trouble
he’d	caused.
‘The	Thinker,’	said	Sir	John	Rothenstein,	the	director	of	the	Tate	Gallery,	‘is	considered	by	most	critics
to	be	one	of	Rodin’s	most	iconic	works.	It	was	originally	designed	to	be	part	of	The	Gates	of	Hell,	and
was	at	first	entitled	The	Poet,	as	the	artist	wished	to	pay	homage	to	his	hero,	Dante.	And	such	became	the
artist’s	association	with	the	piece	that	the	maestro	is	buried	under	a	cast	of	this	bronze	at	Meudon.’
Sir	Alan	continued	to	circle	the	great	statue.	‘Correct	me	if	I’m	wrong,	Sir	John,	but	is	this	the	fifth	of
the	nine	editions	that	were	originally	cast?’
‘That	is	correct,	Sir	Alan.	The	most	sought	after	works	by	Rodin	are	those	that	were	cast	in	his	lifetime
by	Alexis	Rudier	at	his	foundry	in	Paris.	Since	Rodin’s	death,	unfortunately	in	my	opinion,	the	French
government	has	allowed	limited	editions	to	be	reproduced	by	another	foundry,	but	these	are	not
considered	by	serious	collectors	to	have	the	same	authenticity	as	the	lifetime	casts.’
‘Is	it	known	where	all	the	nine	original	casts	are	now?’
‘Oh	yes,’	said	the	director.	‘Apart	from	this	one,	there	are	three	in	Paris	–	at	the	Louvre,	the	Musée
Rodin,	and	the	one	at	Meudon.	There	is	also	one	at	the	Metropolitan	Museum	in	New	York,	and	another	in
the	Hermitage	in	Leningrad,	leaving	three	in	hands	of	private	collectors.’
‘Is	it	known	who	owns	those	three?’
‘One	is	in	Baron	de	Rothschild’s	collection,	and	another	is	owned	by	Paul	Mellon.	The	whereabouts	of
the	third	has	long	been	shrouded	in	mystery.	All	we	know	for	certain	is	that	it’s	a	lifetime	cast	and	was
sold	to	a	private	collector	by	the	Marlborough	Gallery	some	ten	years	ago.	However,	that	shroud	might
finally	be	lifted	next	week.’
‘I’m	not	sure	I’m	following	you,	Sir	John.’
‘A	1902	cast	of	The	Thinker	is	coming	under	the	hammer	at	Sotheby’s	on	Monday	evening.’
‘And	who	owns	that	one?’	asked	Sir	Alan	innocently.
‘I’ve	no	idea,’	admitted	Rothenstein.	‘In	the	Sotheby’s	catalogue,	it’s	simply	listed	as	the	property	of	a
gentleman.’
The	cabinet	secretary	smiled	at	the	thought,	but	satisfied	himself	with,	‘And	what	does	that	mean?’
‘That	the	seller	wishes	to	remain	anonymous.	It	often	turns	out	to	be	an	aristocrat	who	doesn’t	want	to
admit	that	he’s	fallen	on	hard	times	and	is	having	to	part	with	one	of	the	family’s	heirlooms.’
‘How	much	would	you	expect	the	piece	to	fetch?’
‘It’s	difficult	to	estimate,	because	a	Rodin	of	this	importance	hasn’t	come	on	the	market	for	several
years.	But	I	would	be	surprised	if	it	went	for	less	than	a	hundred	thousand	pounds.’
‘Would	a	layman	be	able	to	tell	the	difference	between	this	one,’	Sir	Alan	said,	admiring	the	bronze	in
front	of	him,	‘and	the	one	that’s	coming	up	for	sale	at	Sotheby’s?’
‘There	is	no	difference,’	said	the	director,	‘other	than	the	cast	number.	Otherwise	they	are	identical	in
every	way.’
The	cabinet	secretary	circled	The	Thinker	several	more	times	before	he	tapped	the	massive	mound	the
man	was	sitting	on.	He	was	now	in	no	doubt	where	Martinez	had	secreted	the	eight	million	pounds.	Hetook	a	pace	back	and	looked	more	closely	at	the	bronze	cast’s	wooden	base.	‘Would	all	nine	casts	have
been	fixed	on	the	same	kind	of	base?’
‘Not	exactly	the	same,	but	similar,	I	suspect.	Every	gallery	or	collector	will	have	their	own	opinion	on
how	it	should	be	displayed.	We	chose	a	simple	oak	base	that	we	felt	would	be	harmonious	with	its
surroundings.’
‘And	how	is	the	base	attached	to	the	statue?’
‘For	a	bronze	of	this	size,	there	would	usually	be	four	small	steel	lips	moulded	on	to	the	inside	of	the
bottom	of	the	statue.	Each	will	have	had	a	hole	drilled	in	it,	through	which	a	bolt	and	a	bevelled	rod	can
be	lowered.	Then	all	you	have	to	do	is	drill	four	holes	through	the	base,	and	attach	it	to	the	bottom	of	the
statue	with	what	are	called	butterfly	screws.	Any	decent	carpenter	could	do	the	job.’
‘So	if	you	wanted	to	remove	the	base,	all	you	would	have	to	do	is	unscrew	the	butterfly	bolts	and	it
would	become	detached	from	the	statue?’
‘Yes,	I	suppose	so,’	said	Sir	John.	‘But	why	would	anyone	want	to	do	that?’
‘Why	indeed,’	said	the	cabinet	secretary,	allowing	himself	the	suggestion	of	a	smile.	He	now	knew	not
only	where	Martinez	had	hidden	the	money,	but	how	he	intended	to	smuggle	it	into	Britain.	And,	far	more
important,	how	he	planned	to	be	reunited	with	his	£8	million	in	counterfeit	five-pound	notes	without
anyone	becoming	aware	of	what	he	was	up	to.
‘Clever	man,’	he	said	as	he	gave	the	hollow	bronze	one	final	tap.
‘A	genius,’	said	the	director.
‘Well,	I	wouldn’t	go	that	far,’	said	Sir	Alan.	But	to	be	fair,	they	were	talking	about	two	different
people.41
T HE	DRIVER	OF 	the	white	Bedford	van	drew	up	outside	Green	Park	tube	station	on	Piccadilly.	He	left	his
engine	running	and	flashed	his	headlights	twice.
Three	men,	who	were	never	late,	emerged	from	the	underground	carrying	the	tools	of	their	trade	and
walked	quickly	to	the	back	of	the	van,	which	they	knew	would	be	unlocked.	Between	them,	they	placed	a
small	brazier,	a	petrol	can,	a	bag	of	tools,	a	ladder,	a	thick	coil	of	rope	and	a	box	of	Swan	Vesta	matches
in	the	back	before	joining	their	commanding	officer.
If	anyone	had	given	them	a	second	look,	and	no	one	did	at	six	o’clock	on	a	Sunday	morning,	they	would
have	assumed	that	they	were	just	tradesmen	and,	indeed,	that	is	what	they	had	been	before	they	joined	the
SAS.	Corporal	Crann	had	been	a	carpenter,	Sergeant	Roberts	a	foundry	worker	and	Captain	Hartley	a
structural	engineer.
‘Good	morning,	gentlemen,’	Colonel	Scott-Hopkins	said	as	the	three	of	them	climbed	into	the	van.
‘Good	morning,	colonel,’	they	replied	in	unison	as	their	commanding	officer	pushed	the	gear	lever	into
first,	and	the	Bedford	van	set	out	on	the	journey	to	Southampton.
Sebastian	had	already	been	on	deck	for	a	couple	of	hours	before	the	Queen	Mary	lowered	its	passenger
ramp.	He	was	among	the	first	to	disembark,	and	quickly	made	his	way	across	to	the	customs	office.	He
presented	the	cargo	manifest	to	a	young	officer,	who	inspected	it	briefly	before	giving	Sebastian	a	closer
look.
‘Please	wait	there,’	he	said,	and	disappeared	into	a	back	office.	A	few	moments	later,	an	older	man
appeared,	with	three	silver	stripes	on	the	cuffs	of	his	uniform.	He	asked	to	see	Sebastian’s	passport,	and
once	he’d	checked	the	photograph,	he	immediately	signed	the	clearance	order.
‘My	colleague	will	accompany	you,	Mr	Clifton,	to	where	the	crate	will	be	unloaded.’
Sebastian	and	the	young	officer	walked	out	of	the	customs	shed	to	see	a	crane	lowering	its	hoist	into	the
Queen	Mary’s	hold.	Twenty	minutes	later,	the	first	piece	to	appear	was	a	massive	wooden	crate	Sebastian
had	never	seen	before.	It	was	lowered	slowly	on	to	the	dockside,	coming	to	rest	at	loading	bay	six.
A	group	of	dockers	removed	the	hoist	and	chains	from	around	the	crate,	so	the	crane	could	swing	back
and	gather	up	its	next	piece	of	cargo,	while	the	crate	was	transferred	by	a	waiting	forklift	truck	into	shed
No.	40.	The	whole	process	had	taken	forty-three	minutes.	The	young	officer	asked	Sebastian	to	return	to
the	office,	as	there	was	some	paperwork	to	be	completed.
The	police	car	turned	on	its	siren,	overtook	the	Sotheby’s	van	on	the	road	from	London	to	Southamptonand	indicated	to	the	driver	that	he	should	pull	into	the	nearest	layby.
Once	the	van	had	come	to	a	halt,	two	officers	stepped	out	of	the	police	car.	The	first	approached	the
front	of	the	van,	while	his	colleague	made	his	way	to	the	rear.	The	second	officer	took	a	Swiss	army	knife
from	his	pocket,	opened	it	and	thrust	the	blade	firmly	into	the	back	left-hand	tyre.	Once	he	heard	a	hissing
sound,	he	returned	to	the	police	car.
The	van	driver	wound	down	his	window	and	gave	the	officer	a	quizzical	look.	‘I	don’t	think	I	was
breaking	the	speed	limit,	officer.’
‘No	you	were	not,	sir.	But	I	thought	you	should	know	you	have	a	puncture	in	your	left-hand	rear	tyre.’
The	driver	got	out,	walked	to	the	back	of	the	van	and	stared	in	disbelief	at	the	flat	tyre.
‘You	know	officer,	I	never	felt	a	thing.’
‘It’s	always	the	same	with	slow	punctures,’	said	the	officer,	as	a	white	Bedford	van	drove	past	them.
He	saluted,	said,	‘Happy	to	have	been	of	assistance,	sir,’	then	joined	his	colleague	in	the	patrol	car	and
drove	off.
If	the	Sotheby’s	driver	had	asked	to	see	the	policeman’s	warrant	card,	he	would	have	discovered	that
he	was	attached	to	the	Metropolitan	Police	in	Rochester	Row,	and	was	therefore	miles	outside	his
jurisdiction.	But	then,	as	Sir	Alan	had	discovered,	not	many	officers	who’d	served	under	him	in	the	SAS
were	currently	working	for	the	Hampshire	police	force,	and	were	also	available	at	short	notice	on	a
Sunday	morning.
Don	Pedro	and	Diego	were	driven	to	Ministro	Pistarini	international	airport.	Their	six	large	suitcases
went	through	customs	without	being	checked,	and	they	later	boarded	a	BOAC	aircraft	bound	for	London.
‘I	always	prefer	to	travel	on	a	British	carrier,’	Don	Pedro	told	the	purser	as	they	were	shown	to	their
seats	in	first	class.
The	Boeing	Stratocruiser	took	off	at	5.43	p.m.,	just	a	few	minutes	behind	schedule.
The	driver	of	the	white	Bedford	van	swung	on	to	the	dock-side	and	headed	straight	for	shed	No.	40	at	the
far	end	of	the	docks.	No	one	in	the	van	was	at	all	surprised	that	Colonel	Scott-Hopkins	knew	exactly
where	he	was	going.	After	all,	he’d	carried	out	a	recce	forty-eight	hours	before.	The	colonel	was	a	details
man;	never	left	anything	to	chance.
When	the	van	came	to	a	halt,	he	handed	a	key	to	Captain	Hartley.	His	second-in-command	got	out	and
unlocked	the	shed’s	double	doors.	The	colonel	drove	the	van	into	the	vast	building.	In	front	of	them,	in	the
middle	of	the	floor,	stood	a	massive	wooden	crate.
While	the	engineer	locked	the	door,	the	other	three	went	to	the	back	of	the	van	and	removed	their
equipment.
The	carpenter	placed	the	ladder	up	against	the	crate,	climbed	up	and	began	to	remove	the	nails	that	kept
the	lid	in	place	with	a	claw	hammer.	While	he	went	about	his	work,	the	colonel	walked	to	the	far	end	of
the	shed	and	climbed	into	the	cab	of	a	small	crane	that	had	been	left	there	overnight,	then	drove	it	across
to	the	crate.
The	engineer	removed	the	heavy	coil	of	rope	from	the	back	of	the	van,	then	made	a	noose	at	one	end
before	throwing	it	over	his	shoulder.	He	stood	back	and	waited	to	perform	the	hangman’s	duties.	It	took
the	carpenter	eight	minutes	to	remove	all	the	nails	from	the	thick	lid	on	the	top	of	the	packing	case,	and
when	he’d	completed	the	task	he	climbed	back	down	the	ladder	and	placed	the	lid	on	the	floor.	The
engineer	took	his	place	on	the	ladder,	the	coil	of	rope	still	hanging	over	his	left	shoulder.	When	he
reached	the	top	step,	he	bent	down,	lowered	himself	into	the	box	and	passed	the	thick	rope	securely	undereach	arm	of	The	Thinker.	He	would	have	preferred	to	use	a	chain,	but	the	colonel	had	stressed	that	the
sculpture	was	in	no	circumstances	to	be	damaged.
Once	the	engineer	was	certain	that	the	rope	was	secure,	he	tied	a	double	reef	knot	and	held	the	noose
up	to	indicate	that	he	was	ready.	The	colonel	lowered	the	crane’s	steel	chain	until	the	hook	on	its	end	was
inches	from	the	top	of	the	open	crate.	The	engineer	grabbed	the	hook,	placed	the	noose	over	it	and	gave	a
thumbs-up.
The	colonel	took	up	the	slack	before	he	began	to	raise	the	statue	inch	by	inch	out	of	the	crate.	First,	the
inclined	head	appeared,	its	chin	resting	on	the	back	of	a	hand,	followed	by	the	torso	and	then	the	muscular
legs,	and	finally	the	large	bronze	mound	on	which	The	Thinker	sat,	contemplating.	The	last	thing	to	appear
was	the	wooden	base	to	which	the	bronze	statue	was	fixed.	Once	it	had	cleared	the	top	of	the	crate,	the
colonel	slowly	lowered	it	until	it	was	suspended	a	couple	of	feet	above	the	ground.
The	foundry	worker	lay	on	his	back,	slid	under	the	statue	and	studied	the	four	butterfly	screws.	He	then
took	a	pair	of	pliers	from	his	tool	bag.
‘Hold	the	damn	thing	still,’	he	said.
The	engineer	grabbed	The	Thinker’s	knees	and	the	carpenter	held	on	to	his	backside	in	an	attempt	to
keep	the	statue	steady.	The	foundry	worker	had	to	strain	every	sinew	in	his	body	before	he	felt	the	first
screw	that	held	the	wooden	base	in	place	give	just	half	an	inch,	and	then	another	half,	until	it	came	finally
loose.	He	repeated	the	exercise	three	more	times,	and	then	suddenly,	without	warning,	the	wooden	base
fell	on	top	of	him.
But	that	wasn’t	what	grabbed	the	attention	of	his	three	colleagues,	because	a	split	second	later,	millions
of	pounds	in	pristine	five-pound	notes	came	pouring	out	of	the	statue	and	buried	him.
‘Does	that	mean	I	can	collect	my	war	pension	at	last?’	asked	the	carpenter	as	he	stared	in	disbelief	at
the	mountain	of	cash.
The	colonel	allowed	himself	a	wry	smile	as	the	foundry	worker	emerged,	grumbling,	from	under	the
mountain	of	money.
‘Afraid	not,	Crann.	My	orders	couldn’t	have	been	clearer,’	he	said	as	he	climbed	out	of	the	crane.
‘Every	last	one	of	those	notes	is	to	be	destroyed.’	If	an	SAS	officer	had	ever	been	tempted	to	disobey	an
order,	surely	it	was	then.
The	engineer	unscrewed	the	cap	on	the	petrol	can	and	reluctantly	splattered	a	few	drops	over	the	coals
in	the	brazier.	He	struck	a	match,	and	stood	back	as	the	flames	danced	into	the	air.	The	colonel	took	the
lead	and	threw	the	first	£50,000	on	to	the	brazier.	Moments	later,	the	other	three	reluctantly	joined	him,
hurling	thousands	upon	thousands	into	the	insatiable	flames.
Once	the	last	bank	note	had	been	burnt	to	a	cinder,	the	four	men	remained	silent	for	some	time	as	they
stared	at	the	pile	of	ashes	and	tried	not	to	think	about	what	they	had	just	done.
The	carpenter	broke	the	silence.	‘That’s	brought	a	totally	new	meaning	to	the	phrase	“money	to	burn”.’
They	all	laughed	except	the	colonel,	who	said	sharply,	‘Let’s	get	on	with	it.’
The	foundry	worker	lay	back	down	on	the	floor	and	slid	under	the	statue.	Like	a	weightlifter,	he	picked
up	the	wooden	base	and	held	it	in	the	air,	while	the	engineer	and	the	carpenter	guided	the	little	steel	rods
back	through	the	four	holes	in	the	bottom	of	the	statue.
‘Hold	firm!’	shouted	the	foundry	worker,	as	the	engineer	and	carpenter	clung	on	to	the	sides	of	the	base
while	he	replaced	the	four	butterfly	screws,	first	with	his	fingers,	then	with	the	pliers,	until	they	were	all
firmly	back	in	place.	Once	he	was	satisfied	they	couldn’t	be	any	tighter,	he	slid	out	from	under	the	statue
and	gave	the	colonel	another	thumbs-up.
The	colonel	pushed	the	up	lever	in	his	cab	and	slowly	raised	The	Thinker	high	into	the	air,	until	it
hovered	a	few	inches	above	the	open	packing	case.	The	engineer	climbed	the	ladder	as	the	colonel	began
gently	lowering	the	statue,	while	Captain	Hartley	guided	it	safely	back	into	the	crate.	Once	the	rope	had
been	removed	from	under	The	Thinker’s	arms,	the	carpenter	replaced	the	engineer	on	the	top	step	andnailed	the	heavy	lid	back	in	place.
‘Right,	gentlemen,	let’s	start	clearing	up	while	the	corporal	is	going	about	his	work,	then	we	won’t
waste	time	later.’
The	three	of	them	set	about	dousing	the	fire,	sweeping	the	floor	and	returning	everything	that	had
already	served	its	purpose	to	the	back	of	the	van.
The	ladder,	the	hammer	and	three	spare	nails	were	the	last	things	to	end	up	in	the	back	of	the	van.	The
colonel	drove	the	crane	back	to	the	exact	position	in	which	he’d	found	it,	while	the	carpenter	and	the
foundry	worker	climbed	into	the	van.	The	engineer	unlocked	the	door	of	the	shed	and	stood	aside	to	allow
the	colonel	to	drive	out.	He	kept	the	engine	running	while	his	second-in-command	locked	the	door	and
then	joined	him	in	the	front.
The	colonel	drove	slowly	along	the	dock	until	he	reached	the	customs	shed.	He	stepped	out	of	the	van,
walked	into	the	office	and	handed	over	the	shed	key	to	the	officer	with	three	silver	stripes	on	his	arm.
‘Thank	you,	Gareth,’	said	the	colonel.	‘I	know	Sir	Alan	will	be	most	grateful,	and	will	no	doubt	thank
you	personally	when	we	all	meet	up	at	our	annual	dinner	in	October.’	The	customs	officer	saluted	as
Colonel	Scott-Hopkins	walked	out	of	his	office,	climbed	back	behind	the	wheel	of	the	white	Bedford	van,
switched	on	the	ignition	and	set	off	on	the	journey	back	to	London.
The	Sotheby’s	van	with	its	newly	fitted	tyre	arrived	at	the	dockside	about	forty	minutes	later	than
scheduled.
When	the	driver	brought	the	van	to	a	halt	outside	shed	No.	40,	he	was	surprised	to	see	a	dozen	customs
officials	surrounding	the	package	he	had	come	to	pick	up.
He	turned	to	his	mate	and	said,	‘Something’s	up,	Bert.’
As	they	stepped	out	of	the	van,	a	forklift	truck	picked	up	the	massive	crate	and,	with	the	assistance	of
several	customs	officials,	far	too	many	in	Bert’s	opinion,	manoeuvred	it	into	the	back	of	the	van.	A
handover	that	would	normally	take	a	couple	of	hours	was	completed	in	twenty	minutes,	including	the
paperwork.
‘What	can	possibly	be	in	that	crate?’	said	Bert	as	they	drove	away.
‘Search	me,’	said	the	driver.	‘But	don’t	complain,	because	now	we’ll	be	back	in	time	to	hear	Henry
Hall’s	Guest	Night	on	the	Home	Service.’
Sebastian	was	also	surprised	by	the	speed	and	efficiency	with	which	the	whole	operation	had	been
carried	out.	He	could	only	assume	that	either	the	statue	must	be	extremely	valuable,	or	that	Don	Pedro
wielded	as	much	influence	in	Southampton	as	he	did	in	Buenos	Aires.
After	Sebastian	had	thanked	the	officer	with	the	three	silver	stripes,	he	made	his	way	back	to	the
terminal,	where	he	joined	the	few	remaining	passengers	waiting	at	passport	control.	A	first	stamp	in	his
first	passport	made	him	smile,	but	that	smile	turned	to	tears	when	he	walked	into	the	arrivals	hall	to	be
greeted	by	his	parents.	He	told	them	how	desperately	sorry	he	was,	and	within	moments	it	was	as	if	he’d
never	been	away.	No	recriminations	and	no	lectures,	which	only	made	him	feel	more	guilty.
On	the	journey	back	to	Bristol,	he	had	so	much	to	tell	them:	Tibby,	Janice,	Bruno,	Mr	Martinez,
Princess	Margaret,	the	ambassador	and	the	customs	officer	all	made	their	entrances	and	exits,	although	he
decided	not	to	mention	Gabriella	–	he’d	save	her	for	Bruno.
As	they	drove	through	the	gates	of	the	Manor	House,	the	first	thing	Sebastian	saw	was	Jessica	running
towards	them.
‘I	never	thought	I’d	miss	you,’	he	said	as	he	stepped	out	of	the	car	and	threw	his	arms	around	her.The	Sotheby’s	van	turned	into	Bond	Street	just	after	seven.	The	driver	was	not	surprised	to	see	half	a
dozen	porters	hanging	around	on	the	pavement.	Although	they	were	all	on	overtime,	they	would	still	be
keen	to	get	home.
Mr	Dickens,	the	head	of	the	Impressionist	Department,	supervised	transferring	the	crate	from	the
roadside	to	the	storeroom	in	the	auction	house.	He	waited	patiently	for	the	wooden	slats	to	be	stripped
and	the	shavings	swept	away,	so	he	could	check	that	the	number	in	the	catalogue	matched	the	number	on
the	sculpture.	He	bent	down	to	see	‘6’	etched	into	the	bronze	below	the	signature	of	Auguste	Rodin.	He
smiled,	and	placed	a	tick	on	the	manifest.
‘Many	thanks,	chaps,’	he	said.	‘You	can	all	go	home	now.	I’ll	deal	with	the	paperwork	in	the	morning.’
As	Mr	Dickens	was	the	last	to	leave	the	building	that	night,	he	locked	up	before	walking	off	in	the
direction	of	Green	Park	station.	He	didn’t	notice	a	man	standing	in	the	entrance	of	an	antique	shop	on	the
opposite	side	of	the	street.
Once	Mr	Dickens	was	out	of	sight,	the	man	emerged	from	the	shadows	and	walked	to	the	nearest
telephone	box	on	Curzon	Street.	He	had	four	pennies	ready,	but	then	he	never	left	anything	to	chance.	He
dialled	a	number	he	knew	by	heart.	When	he	heard	a	voice	on	the	other	end	of	the	line,	he	pressed	button
A,	and	said,	‘An	empty	thinker	is	spending	the	night	in	Bond	Street,	sir.’
‘Thank	you,	colonel,’	said	Sir	Alan,	‘and	there’s	another	matter	I	need	you	to	handle.	I’ll	be	in	touch.’
The	line	went	dead.
After	BOAC	flight	number	714	from	Buenos	Aires	touched	down	at	London	Airport	the	following
morning,	Don	Pedro	wasn’t	at	all	surprised	that	every	one	of	his	and	Diego’s	suitcases	was	opened,
checked	and	double	checked	by	several	over-zealous	customs	officials.	When	they	had	finally	placed	a
chalk	cross	on	the	side	of	the	last	case,	Martinez	sensed	a	little	frisson	of	disappointment	among	the
customs	officers,	as	he	and	his	son	walked	out	of	the	airport.
Once	they	were	seated	in	the	back	of	the	Rolls-Royce	and	on	their	way	to	Eaton	Square,	Don	Pedro
turned	to	Diego	and	said,	‘All	you	have	to	remember	about	the	British	is	that	they	lack	imagination.’42
A LTHOUGH	THE	FIRST 	lot	would	not	come	under	the	hammer	until	seven	that	evening,	the	auction	house	was
packed	long	before	the	appointed	hour,	as	it	always	was	on	the	opening	night	of	a	major	Impressionist
sale.
The	three	hundred	seats	were	filled	with	gentlemen	wearing	dinner	jackets,	while	many	of	the	ladies
were	adorned	in	long	gowns.	They	might	have	been	attending	an	opening	night	at	the	opera,	and	indeed
this	promised	to	be	as	dramatic	as	anything	on	offer	at	Covent	Garden.	And	although	there	was	a	script,	it
was	always	the	audience	who	had	the	best	lines.
The	invited	guests	fell	into	several	different	categories.	The	serious	bidders,	who	often	turned	up	late
because	they	had	reserved	seats,	and	might	not	be	interested	in	the	first	few	lots,	which,	like	minor
characters	in	a	Shakespeare	play,	are	simply	there	to	warm	up	the	audience.	The	dealers	and	the	gallery
owners,	who	preferred	to	stand	at	the	back	with	their	colleagues	and	share	among	themselves	any	scraps
that	fell	from	the	rich	man’s	table,	when	a	lot	failed	to	reach	its	reserve	price	and	had	to	be	withdrawn.
And	then	there	were	those	who	treated	it	as	a	social	occasion.	They	had	no	interest	in	bidding,	but
enjoyed	the	spectacle	of	the	super-rich	taking	up	arms	against	each	other.
And	last,	the	more	deadly	of	the	species,	with	sub-categories	of	their	own.	The	wives,	who	came	to
watch	how	much	their	husbands	would	spend	on	objects	that	they	had	no	interest	in,	preferring	to	spend
their	money	in	other	establishments	in	the	same	street.	Then	there	were	the	girlfriends,	who	remained
silent,	because	they	were	hoping	to	become	wives.	And	finally,	the	simply	beautiful,	who	had	no	other
purpose	in	life	than	to	remove	the	wives	and	girlfriends	from	the	battlefield.
But,	as	with	everything	in	life,	there	were	exceptions	to	the	rule.	One	such	was	Sir	Alan	Redmayne,
who	would	be	there	to	represent	his	country.	He	would	be	bidding	for	lot	29,	but	hadn’t	yet	decided	how
high	he	would	go.
Sir	Alan	was	not	unfamiliar	with	the	West	End	auction	houses	and	their	strange	traditions.	Over	the
years	he	had	built	up	a	small	collection	of	eighteenth-century	English	water-colours,	and	he	had	also,	on
occasion,	bid	on	behalf	of	the	government,	for	a	painting	or	sculpture	his	masters	felt	should	not	be
allowed	to	leave	the	country.	However,	this	was	the	first	time	in	his	career	that	he	would	be	bidding	for	a
major	work	in	the	hope	of	being	outbid	by	someone	from	overseas.
The	Times	had	predicted	that	morning	that	Rodin’s	The	Thinker	could	sell	for	£100,000	–	a	record	for
any	piece	by	the	French	master.	However,	what	The	Times	couldn’t	know	was	that	Sir	Alan	intended	to
take	the	bidding	above	£100,000,	because	not	until	then	could	he	be	certain	that	the	only	bidder	left	on	the
floor	would	be	Don	Pedro	Martinez,	who	believed	the	statue’s	true	value	to	be	over	eight	million	pounds.
Giles	had	asked	the	cabinet	secretary	the	one	question	he’d	been	trying	to	avoid	answering:	‘If	you
were	to	end	up	outbidding	Martinez,	what	would	you	do	with	the	sculpture?’
‘It	will	be	given	a	home	in	the	National	Gallery	of	Scotland,’	he	had	replied,	‘as	part	of	thegovernment’s	arts	acquisition	policy.	You	will	be	able	to	write	about	it	in	your	memoirs,	but	not	until	after
I’m	dead.’
‘And	if	you	should	prove	to	be	right?’
‘Then	it	will	warrant	a	whole	chapter	in	my	memoirs.’
When	Sir	Alan	entered	the	auction	house,	he	slipped	into	a	seat	in	the	back	left-hand	corner	of	the	sale
room.	He	had	phoned	Mr	Wilson	earlier	to	let	him	know	he	would	be	bidding	on	lot	29,	and	sitting	in	his
usual	place.
By	the	time	Mr	Wilson	climbed	the	five	steps	to	the	rostrum,	most	of	the	major	players	had	taken	their
seats.	Standing	on	both	sides	of	the	auctioneer	was	a	row	of	Sotheby’s	employees.	Most	of	them	would	be
bidding	for	clients	who	were	unable	to	attend	in	person,	or	who	couldn’t	trust	themselves	not	to	be
carried	away	by	the	occasion	and	end	up	bidding	far	more	than	they	had	intended.	On	the	left-hand	side	of
the	room	stood	a	long	table	on	a	raised	platform.	Seated	behind	it	were	some	of	the	auction	house’s	most
experienced	senior	staff.	On	the	table	in	front	of	them	was	a	row	of	white	telephones	that	would	only	be
whispered	into	when	the	lot	their	client	was	interested	in	came	up	for	sale.
From	his	seat	at	the	back	of	the	room,	Sir	Alan	could	see	that	almost	every	place	was	taken.	However,
there	were	still	three	empty	chairs	in	the	third	row	that	must	have	been	reserved	for	a	major	client.	He
wondered	who	would	be	seated	on	either	side	of	Don	Pedro	Martinez.	He	flicked	through	the	pages	of	his
catalogue	until	he	came	to	Rodin’s	The	Thinker,	lot	29.	There	would	be	more	than	enough	time	for
Martinez	to	make	an	entrance.
At	7	p.m.	precisely,	Mr	Wilson	gazed	down	at	his	clients	and,	like	the	Pope,	smiled	benignly.	He
tapped	the	microphone	and	said,	‘Good	evening,	ladies	and	gentlemen,	and	welcome	to	Sotheby’s
Impressionist	sale.	Lot	number	one,’	he	announced,	glancing	to	his	left	to	make	sure	the	porter	had	placed
the	correct	picture	on	the	easel,	‘is	a	delightful	Degas	pastel,	showing	two	ballerinas	in	rehearsal	at	the
Trocadero.	I’ll	open	the	bidding	at	five	thousand	pounds.	Six	thousand.	Seven	thousand.	Eight	thousand	.	.
.’
Sir	Alan	watched	with	interest	as	almost	all	of	the	early	lots	exceeded	their	estimates,	proving,	as	The
Times	had	suggested	that	morning,	that	there	was	a	new	breed	of	collectors	who	had	made	their	fortunes
since	the	war,	and	wished	to	show	they	had	arrived	by	investing	in	art.
It	was	during	the	twelfth	lot	that	Don	Pedro	Martinez	entered	the	room,	accompanied	by	two	young
men.	Sir	Alan	recognized	Martinez’s	youngest	son,	Bruno,	and	assumed	the	other	must	be	Sebastian
Clifton.	The	presence	of	Sebastian	convinced	him	that	Martinez	must	be	confident	that	the	money	was	still
inside	the	statue.
The	dealers	and	gallery	owners	began	to	discuss	among	themselves	if	Martinez	was	likely	to	be	more
interested	in	lot	28,	A	Corner	of	the	Garden	at	St	Paul’s	Hospital	at	St	Rémy	by	Van	Gogh,	or	lot	29,
Rodin’s	The	Thinker.
Sir	Alan	had	always	considered	himself	to	be	a	calm	and	collected	man	under	pressure,	but	at	that
moment	he	felt	his	heart	rate	rising	beat	by	beat	as	each	new	lot	was	placed	on	the	easel.	When	the
bidding	opened	at	£80,000	for	A	Corner	of	the	Garden	at	St	Paul’s	Hospital	at	St	Rémy,	and	the	hammer
finally	came	down	at	£140,000,	a	record	for	a	Van	Gogh,	he	took	out	his	handkerchief	and	dabbed	his
forehead.
He	turned	the	page	of	his	catalogue	to	look	at	the	masterpiece	he	admired,	but	for	which,	ironically,	he
still	hoped	to	end	up	as	the	under-bidder.
‘Lot	number	twenty-nine,	Auguste	Rodin’s	The	Thinker,’	said	Mr	Wilson.	‘If	you	look	in	your
catalogue	you	will	see	that	this	is	a	lifetime	cast	by	Alexis	Rudier.	The	work	is	on	display	at	the	entrance
to	the	sale	room,’	the	auctioneer	added.	Several	heads	turned	to	admire	the	massive	bronze	sculpture.
‘Considerable	interest	has	been	shown	in	this	piece,	so	I	shall	open	the	bidding	at	forty	thousand	pounds.
Thank	you,	sir,’	said	the	auctioneer,	pointing	to	a	gentleman	sitting	directly	in	front	of	him	on	the	centreaisle.	Several	more	heads	turned,	this	time	in	the	hope	of	identifying	who	the	bidder	might	be.
Sir	Alan	responded	with	a	slight,	almost	imperceptible	nod.
‘Fifty	thousand,’	declared	the	auctioneer,	his	attention	returning	to	the	man	seated	on	the	aisle,	who
raised	his	hand	again.	‘I	have	sixty	thousand.’	With	no	more	than	a	glance	in	Sir	Alan’s	direction,	Mr
Wilson	received	the	same	slight	nod,	turned	back	to	the	man	on	the	centre	aisle	and	suggested	£80,000,
but	was	greeted	with	a	frown	of	disappointment,	followed	by	a	firm	shake	of	the	head.
‘I	have	seventy	thousand	pounds,’	he	said,	looking	back	at	Sir	Alan,	who	felt	a	creeping	doubt	entering
his	mind.	But	then	Mr	Wilson	looked	to	his	left	and	said,	‘Eighty	thousand.	I	have	a	bid	on	the	telephone	at
eighty	thousand.’	He	immediately	switched	his	attention	back	to	Sir	Alan.	‘Ninety	thousand?’	he	purred.
Sir	Alan	nodded.
Wilson	looked	back	towards	the	phone,	where	a	hand	was	raised	a	few	seconds	later.	‘One	hundred
thousand.	One	hundred	and	ten	thousand?’	he	asked,	looking	once	again	at	Sir	Alan	and	giving	him	his
best	Cheshire	cat	smile.
Could	he	risk	it?	For	the	first	time	in	his	life,	the	cabinet	secretary	took	a	gamble.	He	nodded.
‘I	have	one	hundred	and	ten	thousand	pounds,’	said	Wilson,	looking	directly	at	the	Sotheby’s	employee
who	was	holding	the	phone	to	his	ear	and	awaiting	his	instructions.
Martinez	turned	around	to	see	if	he	could	identify	who	was	bidding	against	him.
The	whispered	phone	conversation	continued	for	some	time.	Sir	Alan	became	more	nervous	with	each
passing	second.	He	tried	not	to	consider	the	possibility	that	Martinez	had	double-crossed	him	and	had
somehow	managed	to	smuggle	£8	million	into	the	country	while	the	SAS	had	set	fire	to	counterfeits	of
counterfeits.	What	felt	like	an	hour	to	him	turned	out	to	be	less	than	twenty	seconds.	And	then	without
warning,	the	man	on	the	phone	raised	his	hand.
‘I	have	a	bid	of	one	hundred	and	twenty	thousand	on	the	phone,’	said	Wilson,	trying	not	to	sound
triumphant.	He	switched	his	attention	back	to	Sir	Alan,	who	didn’t	move	a	muscle.	‘I	have	a	bid	of	one
hundred	and	twenty	thousand	on	the	telephone,’	he	repeated.	‘I	am	letting	the	piece	go	at	a	hundred	and
twenty	thousand,	this	is	your	last	chance,’	he	said,	looking	directly	at	Sir	Alan,	but	the	cabinet	secretary
had	reverted	to	his	more	natural	role	of	mandarin,	displaying	no	expression.
‘Sold,	for	one	hundred	and	twenty	thousand	pounds,’	said	Wilson,	bringing	the	hammer	down	with	a
thud	as	he	transferred	his	smile	to	the	bidder	on	the	telephone.
Sir	Alan	breathed	a	sigh	of	relief,	and	was	particularly	pleased	to	see	the	self-satisfied	grin	on
Martinez’s	face	that	convinced	him	that	the	Argentinian	believed	he’d	repurchased	his	own	statue,
containing	£8	million	pounds,	for	a	mere	£120,000.	And	tomorrow,	no	doubt,	he	intended	to	exchange	old
lamps	for	new.
A	couple	of	lots	later,	Martinez	rose	from	his	place	in	the	third	row	and	barged	along	the	line	of	people
without	the	slightest	concern	that	they	might	still	be	following	the	auction.	Once	he’d	reached	the	aisle,	he
marched	back	down,	a	look	of	satisfaction	on	his	face,	and	disappeared	out	of	the	room.	The	two	young
men	who	followed	in	his	wake	had	the	grace	to	look	embarrassed.
Sir	Alan	waited	for	half	a	dozen	more	lots	to	find	new	owners	before	he	slipped	out.	When	he	stepped
on	to	Bond	Street,	it	was	such	a	pleasant	evening	that	he	decided	to	walk	to	his	club	in	Pall	Mall	and	treat
himself	to	half	a	dozen	oysters	and	a	glass	of	champagne.	He	would	have	given	a	month’s	salary	to	see
Martinez’s	face	when	he	discovered	that	his	victory	had	turned	out	to	be	hollow.43
T HE	FOLLOWING	MORNING ,	the	anonymous	telephone	bidder	made	three	phone	calls	before	he	left	44	Eaton
Square	a	few	minutes	after	ten	o’clock.	He	hailed	a	taxi	and	asked	the	driver	to	take	him	to	19	St	James’s
Street.	When	they	drew	up	outside	the	Midland	Bank,	he	instructed	the	cabbie	to	wait.
He	wasn’t	surprised	that	the	bank	manager	was	available	to	see	him.	After	all,	he	couldn’t	have	too
many	customers	who	had	never	seen	red.	The	manager	invited	him	into	his	office,	and	once	the	customer
was	seated	he	asked,	‘Who	would	you	like	the	banker’s	draft	made	out	to?’
‘Sotheby’s.’
The	manager	wrote	out	the	draft,	signed	it,	placed	it	in	an	envelope,	then	passed	it	to	young	Mr
Martinez,	as	the	banker	thought	of	him.	Diego	placed	the	envelope	in	an	inside	pocket	and	left	without
another	word.
‘Sotheby’s,’	was	again	the	only	word	he	uttered	as	he	pulled	the	taxi	door	closed	and	sank	into	the	back
seat.
When	the	taxi	came	to	a	halt	outside	the	Bond	Street	entrance	of	the	auction	house,	Diego	once	again
instructed	the	driver	to	wait.	He	got	out	of	the	cab,	pushed	his	way	through	the	front	door	and	headed
straight	for	the	settlement	desk.
‘How	can	I	help	you,	sir?’	asked	the	young	man	standing	behind	the	counter.
‘I	purchased	lot	number	twenty-nine	in	last	night’s	sale,’	said	Diego,	‘and	I’d	like	to	settle	my	bill.’	The
young	man	leafed	through	the	catalogue.
‘Ah	yes,	Rodin’s	The	Thinker.’	Diego	wondered	how	many	items	got	the	‘Ah	yes’	treatment.	‘That	will
be	one	hundred	and	twenty	thousand	pounds,	sir.’
‘Of	course,’	said	Diego.	He	took	the	envelope	out	of	his	pocket,	extracted	the	banker’s	draft	–	an
instrument	that	ensured	the	buyer	could	never	be	traced	–	and	placed	it	on	the	counter.
‘Shall	we	deliver	the	piece,	sir,	or	would	you	prefer	to	pick	it	up?’
‘I	will	collect	it	in	one	hour’s	time.’
‘I’m	not	sure	that	will	be	possible,’	said	the	young	man.	‘You	see,	sir,	the	day	after	a	major	sale	we’re
always	run	off	our	feet.’
Diego	took	out	his	wallet	and	placed	a	five-pound	note	on	the	counter,	probably	more	than	the	young
man	earned	in	a	week.
‘Make	those	feet	run	in	my	direction,’	he	said.	‘And	if	the	package	is	waiting	for	me	when	I	return	in	an
hour,	there’ll	be	two	more	where	this	one	came	from.’
The	young	man	slipped	the	note	into	a	back	pocket	to	confirm	the	deal	had	been	closed.
Diego	returned	to	the	waiting	taxi	and	this	time	gave	the	driver	an	address	in	Victoria.	When	he	pulled
up	outside	the	building,	Diego	got	out	of	the	cab	and	parted	with	another	of	his	father’s	five-pound	notes.
He	waited	for	the	change,	and	placed	two	real	pound	notes	in	his	wallet	and	gave	the	cabbie	sixpence.	Hewalked	into	the	building	and	went	straight	up	to	the	only	available	sales	assistant.
‘May	I	help	you?’	asked	a	young	woman	dressed	in	a	brown	and	yellow	uniform.
‘My	name	is	Martinez,’	he	said.	‘I	called	earlier	this	morning	and	booked	a	large	heavy-duty	truck.’
Once	Diego	had	filled	in	the	obligatory	form	he	parted	with	another	five-pound	note,	and	placed	three
more	legal	notes	in	his	wallet.
‘Thank	you,	sir.	You’ll	find	the	truck	in	the	back	yard.	It’s	parked	in	bay	number	seventy-one.’	She
handed	him	a	key.
Diego	strolled	into	the	yard	and,	after	identifying	the	truck,	he	unlocked	the	back	door	and	checked
inside.	It	was	perfect	for	the	job.	He	climbed	behind	the	wheel,	switched	on	the	ignition	and	set	off	on	the
return	journey	to	Sotheby’s.	Twenty	minutes	later,	he	parked	outside	the	rear	entrance	on	George	Street.
As	he	climbed	out	of	the	van,	the	rear	door	of	the	auction	house	swung	open	and	a	large	packing	case
with	several	red	SOLD	stickers	plastered	all	over	it	was	wheeled	out	on	to	the	pavement,	accompanied
by	six	men	in	long	green	coats	who,	from	their	solid	build,	looked	as	if	they	might	have	been	professional
pugilists	before	they	came	to	work	for	Sotheby’s.
Diego	opened	the	back	door	of	the	truck,	and	twelve	hands	lifted	the	crate	off	the	trolley	as	if	it
contained	a	feather	duster	and	slid	it	into	the	back	of	the	vehicle.	Diego	locked	the	door	and	handed	the
young	man	from	the	settlement	desk	two	more	five-pound	notes.
Once	he	was	back	behind	the	wheel,	he	checked	his	watch:	11.41.	No	reason	he	shouldn’t	make	it	to
Shillingford	in	a	couple	of	hours,	although	he	knew	his	father	would	be	pacing	up	and	down	the	driveway
long	before	then.
When	Sebastian	spotted	the	light	blue	crest	of	Cambridge	University	among	the	morning	mail,	he	grabbed
the	envelope	and	opened	it	immediately.	The	first	thing	he	always	did	with	any	letter	was	to	check	the
signature	at	the	bottom	of	the	page.	Dr	Brian	Padgett,	a	name	he	was	unfamiliar	with.
Dear	Mr	Clifton,
That	was	still	taking	him	a	little	time	to	get	used	to.
Many	congratulations	on	being	awarded	the	College’s	Modern	Languages	scholarship.	As	I	am	sure
you	know,	Michaelmas	Term	begins	on	September	16th,	but	I	am	hoping	we	can	meet	before	then	in
order	to	discuss	one	or	two	matters,	including	your	reading	list	before	term	begins.	I	would	also	like	to
guide	you	through	the	syllabus	for	your	freshman	year.
Perhaps	you	could	drop	me	a	line	or,	better	still,	give	me	a	ring.
Yours	sincerely,
Dr	Brian	Padgett
Senior	Tutor
After	he’d	read	it	a	second	time,	he	decided	to	phone	Bruno	and	find	out	if	he’d	received	a	similar
letter,	in	which	case	they	could	travel	up	to	Cambridge	together.
Diego	wasn’t	at	all	surprised	to	see	his	father	come	running	out	of	the	front	door	the	moment	he	drove
through	the	entrance	gates.	But	what	did	surprise	him	was	to	see	his	brother	Luis	and	every	member	of	theShillingford	Hall	staff	following	a	few	paces	behind.	Karl	was	bringing	up	the	rear	clutching	a	leather
bag.
‘Have	you	got	the	statue?’	asked	his	father,	even	before	Diego	had	stepped	out	of	the	truck.
‘Yes,’	replied	Diego,	who	shook	hands	with	his	brother	before	walking	around	to	the	back	of	the	truck.
He	unlocked	the	door	to	reveal	the	massive	crate	with	over	a	dozen	red	SOLD	stickers.	Don	Pedro	smiled
and	patted	the	crate	as	if	it	was	one	of	his	pet	dogs,	then	stepped	aside	to	allow	everyone	else	to	do	the
heavy	work.
Diego	supervised	the	team,	who	began	to	push	and	pull	the	vast	packing	case	out	of	the	truck	inch	by
inch	until	it	was	about	to	topple	over.	Karl	and	Luis	quickly	grabbed	two	of	the	corners	while	Diego	and
the	chef	clung	on	to	the	other	end,	and	the	chauffeur	and	the	gardener	held	on	firmly	to	the	middle.
The	six	unlikely	porters	staggered	around	to	the	back	of	the	house	and	dumped	the	crate	in	the	middle	of
the	lawn.	The	gardener	didn’t	look	pleased.
‘Do	you	want	it	upright?’	asked	Diego,	once	they’d	caught	their	breath.
‘No,’	said	Don	Pedro,	‘leave	it	on	its	side,	then	it	will	be	easier	to	remove	the	base.’
Karl	took	a	claw	hammer	out	of	his	tool	bag	and	set	about	loosening	the	deeply	embedded	nails	that
held	the	wooden	slats	in	place.	At	the	same	time,	the	chef,	the	gardener	and	the	chauffeur	began	to	rip	off
the	wooden	panels	from	the	sides	with	their	hands.
Once	the	last	piece	of	wood	had	been	removed,	they	all	stood	back	and	stared	at	The	Thinker	as	he	lay
unceremoniously	on	his	backside.	Don	Pedro’s	eyes	never	left	the	wooden	base.	He	bent	down	and
looked	more	closely,	but	couldn’t	detect	anything	that	might	suggest	it	had	been	tampered	with.	He
glanced	up	at	Karl	and	nodded.
His	trusted	bodyguard	bent	down	and	studied	the	four	butterfly	screws.	He	took	a	pair	of	pliers	out	of
the	tool	bag	and	began	to	unscrew	one	of	them.	It	moved	grudgingly	at	first,	then	a	little	more	easily,	until
finally	it	swivelled	off	its	bevelled	rod	and	fell	on	the	grass.	He	repeated	the	exercise	three	more	times
until	all	four	screws	had	been	removed.	He	then	paused,	but	only	for	a	moment	before	he	grabbed	hold	of
both	sides	of	the	wooden	base	and,	with	all	the	strength	he	could	muster,	pulled	it	off	the	statue	and
dropped	it	on	the	grass.	With	a	smile	of	satisfaction,	he	stood	aside	to	allow	his	master	the	pleasure	of
being	the	first	to	look	inside.
Martinez	fell	to	his	knees	and	stared	into	the	gaping	hole,	while	Diego	and	the	rest	of	the	team	awaited
his	next	command.	There	was	a	long	silence	before	Don	Pedro	suddenly	let	out	a	piercing	scream	that
would	have	woken	those	resting	peacefully	in	the	nearby	parish	graveyard.	The	six	men,	displaying
different	degrees	of	fear,	stared	down	at	him,	not	sure	what	had	caused	the	outburst,	until	he	shouted	at	the
top	of	his	voice,	‘Where’s	my	money?’
Diego	had	never	seen	his	father	so	angry.	He	quickly	knelt	down	by	his	side,	thrust	his	hands	into	the
statue	and	flailed	about	in	search	of	the	missing	millions,	but	all	he	managed	to	retrieve	was	a	rogue	five-
pound	note	that	had	got	stuck	to	the	inside	of	the	bronze.
‘Where	the	hell’s	the	money?’	said	Diego.
‘Someone	must	have	stolen	it,’	said	Luis.
‘That’s	stating	the	fucking	obvious!’	bellowed	Don	Pedro.
No	one	else	considered	offering	an	opinion	while	he	continued	to	stare	into	the	hollow	base,	still
unwilling	to	accept	that	all	he	had	to	show	after	a	year	of	preparing	for	this	moment	was	a	single
counterfeit	five-pound	note.	Several	minutes	passed	before	he	rose	unsteadily	to	his	feet,	and	when	he
finally	spoke	he	appeared	remarkably	calm.
‘I	don’t	know	who	is	responsible	for	this,’	he	said,	pointing	at	the	statue,	‘but	if	it’s	the	last	thing	I	do,	I
will	track	them	down,	and	leave	my	calling	card.’
Without	another	word,	Don	Pedro	turned	his	back	on	the	statue	and	marched	towards	the	house.	Only
Diego,	Luis	and	Karl	dared	to	follow	him.	He	walked	through	the	front	door,	across	the	hall,	into	thedrawing	room,	and	stopped	in	front	of	a	full-length	portrait	of	Tissot’s	mistress.	He	lifted	Mrs	Kathleen
Newton	off	the	wall	and	propped	her	up	against	the	windowsill.	He	then	began	to	swivel	a	dial	several
times,	first	to	the	left	and	then	to	the	right,	until	he	heard	a	click,	when	he	heaved	open	the	heavy	door	of
the	safe.	Martinez	stared	for	a	moment	at	the	piles	of	neatly	stacked	five-pound	notes	that	members	of	his
family	and	trusted	staff	had	smuggled	into	England	over	the	past	ten	years,	before	removing	three	large
bundles	of	notes	and	handing	one	to	Diego,	another	to	Luis	and	the	third	to	Karl.	He	looked	fixedly	at	the
three	of	them.	‘No	one	rests	until	we’ve	found	out	who	was	responsible	for	stealing	my	money.	Each	one
of	you	must	play	your	part,	and	you	will	only	be	rewarded	by	results.’
He	turned	to	Karl.	‘I	want	you	to	find	out	who	informed	Giles	Barrington	that	his	nephew	was	on	the
way	to	Southampton	and	not	London	airport.’
Karl	nodded,	as	Martinez	swung	round	to	face	Luis.	‘You	will	go	down	to	Bristol	this	evening	and	find
out	who	Barrington’s	enemies	are.	Members	of	Parliament	always	have	enemies,	and	don’t	forget	that
many	of	them	will	be	on	his	own	side.	And	while	you’re	down	there,	try	to	pick	up	any	information	you
can	about	the	family’s	shipping	company.	Are	they	facing	any	financial	difficulties?	Do	they	have	any
trouble	with	the	unions?	Are	there	any	policy	disagreements	among	the	board	members?	Are	the
shareholders	voicing	any	misgivings?	Dig	deep,	Luis.	Remember,	you	may	not	come	across	any	water
until	you’ve	reached	several	feet	below	the	surface.’
‘Diego,’	he	said,	switching	his	attention	to	his	eldest	son,	‘go	back	to	Sotheby’s	and	find	out	who	was
the	under-bidder	for	lot	twenty-nine,	because	they	must	have	known	that	my	money	was	no	longer	in	the
statue,	otherwise	they	couldn’t	have	risked	raising	the	stakes	so	high.’
Don	Pedro	paused	for	a	moment	before	he	began	jabbing	a	forefinger	at	Diego’s	chest.	‘But	your	most
important	task	will	be	to	build	a	team	that	will	allow	me	to	destroy	whoever	is	responsible	for	this	theft.
Start	by	instructing	the	sharpest	lawyers	available,	because	they’ll	know	who	the	bent	coppers	are	as	well
as	the	criminals	that	never	get	caught,	and	they	won’t	ask	too	many	questions	as	long	as	the	money	is	right.
Once	all	these	questions	have	been	answered	and	everything	is	in	place,	I’ll	be	ready	to	do	to	them	what
they’ve	done	to	us.’44
‘A	 HUNDRED	AND 	twenty	thousand	pounds,’	said	Harry.	‘A	phone	bidder,	but	The	Times	doesn’t	seem	to
know	who	the	buyer	was.’
‘Only	one	person	could	have	paid	that	much	for	the	piece,’	said	Emma.	‘And	by	now,	Mr	Martinez	will
realize	he	didn’t	get	what	he	bargained	for.’	Harry	looked	up	from	the	newspaper	to	see	his	wife
trembling.	‘And	if	there’s	one	thing	we	know	about	that	man,	he’ll	want	to	know	who	was	responsible	for
stealing	his	money.’
‘But	he	has	no	reason	to	believe	Seb	was	involved.	I	was	only	in	Buenos	Aires	for	a	few	hours,	and	no
one	other	than	the	ambassador	even	knew	my	name.’
‘Except	for	Mr	.	.	.	what	was	his	name?’
‘Bolton.	But	he	came	back	on	the	same	plane	as	me.’
‘If	I	was	Martinez,’	said	Emma,	her	voice	breaking,	‘the	first	person	I’d	assume	was	involved	is	Seb.’
‘But	why,	especially	when	he	wasn’t?’
‘Because	he	was	the	last	person	to	see	the	statue	before	it	was	handed	over	to	Sotheby’s.’
‘That’s	not	proof.’
‘Believe	me,	it	will	be	proof	enough	for	Martinez.	I	think	we	have	no	choice	but	to	warn	Seb	that—’
The	door	opened	and	Jessica	burst	into	the	room.
‘Mama,	you’ll	never	guess	where	Seb’s	going	tomorrow.’
‘Luis,	brief	me	on	what	you	found	out	when	you	were	in	Bristol.’
‘I’ve	spent	most	of	my	time	turning	over	stones	to	see	if	anything	would	crawl	out.’
‘And	did	it?’
‘Yes,	I	discovered	that	although	Barrington	is	well	respected	and	popular	in	his	constituency,	he’s	made
several	enemies	along	the	way,	including	his	ex-wife,	and—’
‘What’s	her	problem?’
‘Feels	Barrington	let	her	down	badly	over	his	mother’s	will,	and	she	also	objects	to	being	replaced	by
a	Welsh	coalminer’s	daughter.’
‘Then	perhaps	you	should	try	to	contact	her?’
‘I	have	already	tried,	but	it’s	not	that	simple.	The	English	upper	classes	always	expect	someone	they
know	to	make	the	introduction.	But	while	I	was	in	Bristol,	I	came	across	a	man	who	claims	he	knows	her
well.’
‘What’s	his	name?’
‘Major	Alex	Fisher.’
‘And	what’s	his	connection	with	Barrington?’‘He	was	the	Conservative	candidate	at	the	last	election	when	Barrington	defeated	him	by	four	votes.
Fisher	claims	Barrington	cheated	him	out	of	the	seat,	and	I	got	the	feeling	he’d	do	almost	anything	to	get
even.’
‘Then	we	must	assist	him	in	his	cause,’	said	Don	Pedro.
‘I	also	discovered	that	since	losing	the	election	Fisher’s	been	running	up	debts	all	over	Bristol,	and
he’s	desperately	searching	for	a	lifeline.’
‘Then	I’ll	have	to	throw	him	one,	won’t	I?’	said	Don	Pedro.	‘What	can	you	tell	me	about	Barrington’s
girlfriend?’
‘Dr	Gwyneth	Hughes.	She	teaches	maths	at	St	Paul’s	girls’	school	in	London.	The	local	Labour	Party
has	been	expecting	an	announcement	about	their	future	together	ever	since	his	divorce	went	through,	but,
to	quote	a	committee	member	who	has	met	her,	she	couldn’t	be	described	as	a	“dolly	bird”.’
‘Forget	her,’	said	Don	Pedro.	‘She	won’t	be	any	use	to	us	unless	she	gets	ditched.	Concentrate	on	his
ex-wife	and,	if	the	major	can	arrange	a	meeting,	find	out	if	she’s	interested	in	money	or	revenge.	Almost
every	ex-wife	wants	one	or	the	other	and,	in	most	cases,	both.’	He	smiled	at	Luis	before	adding,	‘Well
done,	my	boy.’	Turning	to	Diego,	he	asked,	‘What	have	you	got	for	me?’
‘I	haven’t	finished	yet,’	said	Luis,	sounding	a	little	aggrieved.	‘I	also	came	across	someone	else	who
knows	more	about	the	Barrington	family	than	they	do	themselves.’
‘And	who’s	that?’
‘A	private	detective	called	Derek	Mitchell.	He’s	worked	for	both	the	Barringtons	and	the	Cliftons	in
the	past,	but	I	have	a	feeling	that,	if	the	money	was	right,	I	could	persuade	him	to—’
‘Don’t	go	anywhere	near	him,’	said	Don	Pedro	firmly.	‘If	he’s	willing	to	double-cross	his	former
employers,	what	makes	you	think	he	wouldn’t	do	the	same	to	us	when	it	suits	him?	But	that	doesn’t	mean
you	shouldn’t	keep	a	close	eye	on	the	man.’
Luis	nodded,	although	he	looked	disappointed.
‘Diego?’
‘A	BOAC	pilot	called	Peter	May	stayed	at	the	Hotel	Milonga	for	two	nights	at	exactly	the	same	time
Sebastian	Clifton	was	in	Buenos	Aires.’
‘So	what?’
‘The	same	man	was	seen	coming	out	of	the	back	door	of	the	British	Embassy	on	the	day	of	the	garden
party.’
‘That	could	just	be	a	coincidence.’
‘And	the	concierge	at	the	Milonga	overheard	someone	who	seemed	to	know	the	man	address	him	as
Harry	Clifton,	which	just	happens	to	be	the	name	of	Sebastian’s	father.’
‘Less	of	a	coincidence.’
‘And	once	his	cover	had	been	blown,	the	man	took	the	next	plane	back	to	London.’
‘No	longer	a	coincidence.’
‘What’s	more,	Mr	Clifton	left	without	paying	his	hotel	bill,	which	was	later	picked	up	by	the	British
Embassy,	proving	not	only	that	father	and	son	were	in	Buenos	Aires	at	the	same	time,	but	that	they	must
have	been	working	together.’
‘Then	why	didn’t	they	stay	at	the	same	hotel?’	asked	Luis.
‘Because	they	didn’t	want	to	be	seen	together,	would	be	my	bet,’	said	Don	Pedro.	He	paused	before
adding,	‘Well	done,	Diego.	And	was	this	Harry	Clifton	also	the	under-bidder	for	my	statue?’
‘I	don’t	think	so.	When	I	asked	the	chairman	of	Sotheby’s	who	it	was,	he	claimed	he	had	no	idea.	And
although	I	hinted,	Mr	Wilson	is	clearly	not	a	man	who	can	be	tempted	by	a	backhander,	and	I	suspect	if	he
was	in	any	way	threatened,	his	next	call	would	be	to	Scotland	Yard.’	Don	Pedro	frowned.	‘But	I	may	have
identified	Wilson’s	one	weakness,’	continued	Diego.	‘When	I	hinted	that	you	were	considering	putting
The	Thinker	back	up	for	sale,	he	let	slip	that	the	British	government	might	be	interested	in	buying	it.’Don	Pedro	exploded,	and	delivered	a	tirade	of	expletives	that	would	have	shocked	a	prison	warden.	It
was	some	time	before	he	calmed	down	again,	and	when	he	finally	did,	he	said	almost	in	a	whisper,	‘So
now	we	know	who	stole	my	money.	And	by	now,	they’ll	have	destroyed	the	notes	or	handed	them	over	to
the	Bank	of	England.	Either	way,’	he	spat	out,	‘we’ll	never	see	a	penny	of	that	money	again.’
‘But	even	the	British	government	couldn’t	have	carried	out	such	an	operation	without	the	cooperation
of	the	Clifton	and	Barrington	family,’	suggested	Diego,	‘so	our	target	hasn’t	moved.’
‘Agreed.	How’s	your	team	shaping	up?’	he	asked,	quickly	changing	the	subject.
‘I’ve	put	a	small	group	together	who	don’t	like	the	idea	of	paying	tax.’	The	other	three	laughed	for	the
first	time	that	morning.	‘For	the	moment,	I’m	keeping	them	on	a	retainer,	ready	to	move	whenever	you	give
the	order.’
‘Do	they	have	any	clue	who	they’ll	be	working	for?’
‘No.	They	think	I’m	a	foreigner	with	far	too	much	money,	and	frankly	they	don’t	ask	too	many	questions
as	long	as	they’re	paid	on	time	and	in	cash.’
‘Good	enough.’	Don	Pedro	turned	to	Karl.	‘Have	you	been	able	to	identify	who	told	Barrington	that	his
nephew	was	on	the	way	to	Southampton	and	not	London?’
‘I	can’t	prove	it,’	said	Karl,	‘but	I’m	sorry	to	report	the	only	name	in	the	frame	is	Bruno’s.’
‘That	boy	has	always	been	too	honest	for	his	own	good.	I	blame	his	mother.	We	must	make	sure	we
never	discuss	what	I	have	in	mind	while	he’s	around.’
‘But	none	of	us	are	quite	sure	what	it	is	you	do	have	in	mind,’	said	Diego.
Don	Pedro	smiled.	‘Never	forget	that	if	you	want	to	bring	an	empire	to	its	knees	you	start	by	killing	the
first	in	line	to	the	throne.’45
T HE	FRONT	DOORBELL 	rang	at	one	minute	to	ten,	and	Karl	answered	it.
‘Good	morning,	sir,’	he	said.	‘How	may	I	help	you?’
‘I	have	an	appointment	with	Mr	Martinez	at	ten	o’clock.’
Karl	gave	a	slight	bow	and	stood	aside	to	allow	the	visitor	to	enter.	He	then	led	him	across	the	hall,
tapped	on	the	study	door	and	said,	‘Your	guest	has	arrived,	sir.’
Martinez	rose	from	behind	his	desk	and	thrust	out	a	hand.	‘Good	morning.	I’ve	been	looking	forward	to
meeting	you.’
As	Karl	closed	the	study	door	and	made	his	way	to	the	kitchen,	he	passed	Bruno,	who	was	chatting	on
the	phone.
‘.	.	.	my	father’s	given	me	a	couple	of	tickets	for	the	men’s	semi-final	at	Wimbledon	tomorrow,	and	he
suggested	I	invite	you.’
‘That’s	very	decent	of	him,’	said	Seb,	‘but	I’ve	got	an	appointment	to	see	my	tutor	in	Cambridge	on
Friday,	so	I	don’t	think	I’ll	be	able	to	make	it.’
‘Don’t	be	so	feeble,’	said	Bruno.	‘There’s	nothing	to	stop	you	coming	up	to	London	tomorrow	morning.
The	match	doesn’t	start	until	two,	so	as	long	as	you	can	get	here	by	eleven,	you’ll	have	more	than	enough
time.’
‘But	I	still	have	to	be	in	Cambridge	by	midday	the	following	day.’
‘Then	you	can	stay	here	overnight,	and	Karl	can	drive	you	to	Liverpool	Street	first	thing	Friday
morning.’
‘Who’s	playing?’
‘Fraser	versus	Cooper,	promises	to	be	a	sizzler.	And	if	you’re	really	good,	I’ll	drive	you	to	Wimbledon
in	my	snazzy	new	car.’
‘You’ve	got	a	car?’	said	Sebastian	in	disbelief.
‘An	orange	MGA,	drophead	coupé.	Dad	gave	it	to	me	for	my	eighteenth.’
‘You	jammy	bastard,’	said	Sebastian.	‘My	pa	gave	me	the	complete	works	of	Proust	for	mine.’
Bruno	laughed.	‘And	if	you	behave	yourself,	on	the	way	I	might	even	tell	you	about	my	latest
girlfriend.’
‘Your	latest?’	mocked	Sebastian.	‘You’ve	got	to	have	had	at	least	one	before	you	can	have	a	“latest”.’
‘Do	I	detect	a	twinge	of	envy?’
‘I’ll	let	you	know	after	I’ve	met	her.’
‘You’re	not	going	to	get	the	chance,	because	I	won’t	be	seeing	her	again	until	Friday,	and	by	then	you’ll
be	on	the	train	to	Cambridge.	See	you	around	eleven	tomorrow.’
Bruno	put	the	phone	down	and	was	on	his	way	to	his	room	when	the	study	door	opened	and	his	father
appeared,	an	arm	around	the	shoulder	of	a	military-looking	gentleman.	Bruno	wouldn’t	have	consideredeavesdropping	on	his	father’s	conversation,	if	he	hadn’t	heard	the	name	Barrington.
‘We’ll	have	you	back	on	the	board	in	no	time,’	his	father	was	saying	as	he	accompanied	his	guest	to	the
front	door.
‘That’s	a	moment	I	will	savour.’
‘However,	I	want	you	to	know,	major,	that	I’m	not	interested	in	the	occasional	raid	on	Barrington’s
simply	to	embarrass	the	family.	My	long-term	plan	is	to	take	over	the	company	and	install	you	as
chairman.	How	does	that	sound?’
‘If	it	brings	down	Giles	Barrington	at	the	same	time,	nothing	would	please	me	more.’
‘Not	just	Barrington,’	said	Martinez.	‘It’s	my	intention	to	destroy	every	member	of	that	family,	one	by
one.’
‘Even	better,’	said	the	major.
‘So	the	first	thing	you	must	do	is	start	buying	Barrington	shares	as	and	when	they	come	on	the	market.
The	moment	you	have	seven	and	a	half	per	cent,	I’ll	put	you	back	on	the	board	as	my	representative.’
‘Thank	you,	sir.’
‘Don’t	call	me	sir.	I’m	Pedro	to	my	friends.’
‘And	I’m	Alex.’
‘Just	remember,	Alex,	from	now	on	you	and	I	are	partners	and	have	only	one	purpose.’
‘Couldn’t	be	better,	Pedro,’	said	the	major	as	the	two	men	shook	hands.	When	he	walked	away,	Don
Pedro	could	have	sworn	he	heard	him	whistling.
When	Don	Pedro	stepped	back	into	the	house,	he	found	Karl	waiting	for	him	in	the	hall.
‘We	need	to	have	a	word,	sir.’
‘Let’s	go	to	my	office.’
Neither	man	spoke	again	until	the	door	was	closed.	Karl	then	repeated	the	conversation	he’d	overheard
between	Bruno	and	his	friend.
‘I	knew	he’d	find	those	Wimbledon	tickets	irresistible.’	He	picked	up	the	phone	on	his	desk.	‘Get	me
Diego,’	he	barked.	‘And	now	let’s	see	if	we	can	tempt	the	boy	with	something	even	more	irresistible,’	he
said	as	he	waited	for	his	son	to	come	on	the	line.
‘What	can	I	do	for	you,	Father?’
‘Young	Clifton	has	risen	to	the	bait	and	will	be	coming	up	to	London	tomorrow	and	going	to
Wimbledon.	If	Bruno	can	persuade	him	to	take	up	my	other	offer,	can	you	have	everything	in	place	by
Friday?’
Sebastian	had	to	borrow	his	mother’s	alarm	clock	to	make	sure	he	was	up	in	time	to	catch	the	7.23	to
Paddington.	Emma	was	waiting	for	him	in	the	hall	and	offered	to	drive	him	to	Temple	Meads.
‘Are	you	expecting	to	see	Mr	Martinez	when	you’re	in	London?’
‘Almost	certainly,’	said	Sebastian,	‘as	it	was	his	suggestion	I	join	Bruno	at	Wimbledon.	Why	do	you
ask?’
‘No	particular	reason.’
Sebastian	wanted	to	ask	why	Mama	seemed	to	be	so	concerned	about	Mr	Martinez,	but	suspected	that	if
he	did	he’d	only	get	the	same	response.	No	particular	reason.
‘Will	you	have	time	to	see	Aunt	Grace	while	you’re	in	Cambridge?’	his	mother	asked,	rather	too
obviously	changing	the	subject.
‘She’s	invited	me	to	tea	at	Newnham	on	Saturday	afternoon.’
‘Don’t	forget	to	give	her	my	love,’	Emma	said	as	they	drew	up	outside	the	station.
On	the	train,	Sebastian	sat	in	a	corner	of	the	carriage,	trying	to	work	out	why	his	parents	seemed	to	beso	concerned	about	a	man	they’d	never	met.	He	decided	to	ask	Bruno	if	he	was	aware	of	any	problem.
After	all,	Bruno	had	never	sounded	convinced	about	him	going	to	Buenos	Aires.
By	the	time	the	train	pulled	into	Paddington,	Sebastian	was	no	nearer	to	solving	the	mystery.	He	handed
in	his	ticket	to	the	collector	at	the	barrier,	walked	out	of	the	station	and	across	the	road,	not	stopping	until
he	reached	No.	37.	He	knocked	on	the	door.
‘Oh	my	goodness,’	said	Mrs	Tibbet	when	she	saw	who	it	was	standing	on	the	doorstep.	She	threw	her
arms	around	him.	‘I	never	thought	I’d	see	you	again,	Seb.’
‘Does	this	establishment	do	breakfast	for	impecunious	university	freshmen?’
‘If	that	means	you’re	going	to	Cambridge	after	all,	then	I’ll	see	what	I	can	rustle	up.’	Sebastian
followed	her	inside.	‘And	close	the	door	behind	you,’	she	added.	‘Anybody	would	think	you	were	born	in
a	barn.’
Sebastian	nipped	back	and	shut	the	front	door,	before	heading	down	the	stairs	to	join	Tibby	in	the
kitchen.	When	Janice	saw	him,	she	said,	‘Look	what	the	cat	dragged	in,’	and	gave	him	a	second	hug
followed	by	the	best	breakfast	he’d	had	since	he’d	last	sat	in	that	kitchen.
‘So	what	have	you	been	up	to	since	we	last	saw	you?’	asked	Mrs	Tibbet.
‘I’ve	been	to	Argentina	and	met	Princess	Margaret.’
‘Where’s	Argentina?’	asked	Janice.
‘It’s	a	long	way	away,’	said	Mrs	Tibbet.
‘And	I’ll	be	going	up	to	Cambridge	in	September,’	he	added	between	mouthfuls.	‘Thanks	to	you,
Tibby.’
‘I	hope	you	didn’t	mind	me	getting	in	touch	with	your	uncle.	And	what	made	matters	worse,	he	ended
up	having	to	come	to	me	in	Paddington.’
‘Thank	God	you	did,’	said	Sebastian.	‘Otherwise	I	might	still	be	in	Argentina.’
‘And	what	brings	you	to	London	this	time?’	asked	Janice.
‘Missed	you	both	so	much	I	had	to	come	back,’	said	Seb.	‘And	where	else	would	I	get	a	decent
breakfast?’
‘Pull	the	other	one,	it’s	got	bells	on,’	said	Mrs	Tibbet	as	she	forked	a	third	sausage	on	to	his	plate.
‘Well,	there	was	one	other	reason,’	admitted	Sebastian.	‘Bruno’s	invited	me	to	Wimbledon	this
afternoon	for	the	men’s	semi-final,	Fraser	versus	Cooper.’
‘I’m	in	love	with	Ashley	Cooper,’	said	Janice,	dropping	her	dishcloth.
‘You’d	fall	in	love	with	anyone	who	reached	the	semis,’	chided	Mrs	Tibbet.
‘That’s	not	fair!	I’ve	never	been	in	love	with	Neale	Fraser.’
Sebastian	laughed,	and	didn’t	stop	laughing	for	the	next	hour,	which	was	why	he	didn’t	turn	up	at	Eaton
Square	until	nearly	half	past	eleven.	When	Bruno	opened	the	door,	Seb	said,	‘Mea	culpa,	but	in	my
defence,	I	was	held	up	by	two	of	my	girlfriends.’
‘Take	me	through	it	one	more	time,’	said	Martinez,	‘and	don’t	leave	out	any	details.’
‘A	team	of	three	experienced	drivers	have	carried	out	several	practice	runs	during	the	past	week,’	said
Diego.	‘They’ll	be	doing	a	final	time	check	later	this	afternoon.’
‘What	can	go	wrong?’
‘If	Clifton	doesn’t	take	up	your	offer,	the	whole	exercise	will	have	to	be	called	off.’
‘If	I	know	that	boy,	he	won’t	be	able	to	resist	it.	Just	be	sure	I	don’t	bump	into	him	before	he	leaves	for
Cambridge	in	the	morning.	Because	I	can’t	guarantee	I	wouldn’t	throttle	him.’
‘I’ve	done	my	best	to	make	sure	your	paths	don’t	cross.	You’re	having	dinner	at	the	Savoy	this	evening
with	Major	Fisher,	and	tomorrow	you	have	an	appointment	in	the	city	first	thing	in	the	morning,	whenyou’ll	be	briefed	by	a	company	lawyer	on	your	legal	rights	once	you’ve	acquired	seven	and	a	half	per
cent	of	Barrington’s.’
‘And	in	the	afternoon?’
‘We’re	both	going	to	Wimbledon.	Not	to	watch	the	women’s	final,	but	to	give	you	ten	thousand	alibis.’
‘And	where	will	Bruno	be?’
‘Taking	his	girlfriend	to	the	cinema.	The	film	starts	at	two	fifteen	and	ends	around	five,	so	he	won’t
hear	the	sad	news	about	his	friend	until	he	gets	back	in	the	evening.’
When	Sebastian	climbed	into	bed	that	night,	he	couldn’t	get	to	sleep.	Like	a	silent	film,	he	reran
everything	that	had	taken	place	during	the	day	frame	by	frame:	breakfast	with	Tibby	and	Janice;	a	trip	to
Wimbledon	in	the	MG,	before	watching	a	nail-biting	semi-final	with	the	fourth	set	finally	going	to	Cooper,
8-6.	The	day	ended	with	a	visit	to	Madame	JoJo’s	on	Brewer	Street,	where	he	was	surrounded	by	a	dozen
Gabriellas.	Something	else	he	wouldn’t	be	telling	his	mother.
And	then,	to	top	it	all,	on	the	way	home	Bruno	asked	him	if	he’d	like	to	drive	the	MG	to	Cambridge	the
next	day	rather	than	go	by	train.
‘But	won’t	your	father	object?’
‘It	was	his	idea.’
When	Sebastian	came	down	to	breakfast	the	following	morning,	he	was	disappointed	to	find	that	Don
Pedro	had	already	left	for	a	meeting	in	the	City,	as	he	wanted	to	thank	him	for	all	his	kindness.	He	would
write	to	him	as	soon	as	he	got	back	to	Bristol.
‘What	an	amazing	time	we	had	yesterday,’	said	Sebastian	as	he	filled	a	bowl	with	cornflakes	and	took	a
seat	next	to	Bruno.
‘To	hell	with	yesterday,’	said	Bruno,	‘I’m	far	more	worried	about	today.’
‘What’s	the	problem?’
‘Do	I	tell	Sally	how	I	feel	about	her,	or	do	I	just	assume	she	already	knows?’	Bruno	blurted	out.
‘That	bad?’
‘It’s	all	right	for	you.	You’re	so	much	more	experienced	in	these	matters	than	I	am.’
‘True,’	said	Sebastian.
‘Stop	smirking,	or	I	won’t	let	you	borrow	the	MG.’
Sebastian	tried	to	look	serious.	Bruno	leant	across	the	table	and	asked,	‘What	do	you	think	I	should
wear?’
‘You	should	be	casual,	but	smart.	A	cravat	rather	than	a	tie,’	suggested	Sebastian	as	the	phone	in	the
hall	began	ringing.	‘And	don’t	forget	that	Sally	will	also	be	worrying	about	what	she	should	wear,’	he
added	as	Karl	entered	the	room.
‘There’s	a	Miss	Thornton	on	the	line	for	you,	Mr	Bruno.’
Sebastian	burst	out	laughing	as	Bruno	slipped	meekly	out	of	the	room.	He	was	spreading	some
marmalade	on	a	second	piece	of	toast	when	his	friend	returned	a	few	minutes	later	and	greeted	him	with
the	words,	‘Damn,	damn,	damn.’
‘What’s	the	matter?’
‘Sally	can’t	make	it.	Says	she’s	got	a	cold	and	is	running	a	temperature.’
‘In	the	middle	of	the	summer?’	said	Sebastian.	‘Sounds	to	me	as	if	she’s	looking	for	an	excuse	to	call	it
all	off.’
‘Wrong	again.	She	said	she’ll	be	fine	by	tomorrow,	and	can’t	wait	to	see	me.’‘Then	why	not	come	to	Cambridge	with	me,	because	I’m	not	fussed	about	what	you	wear?’
Bruno	grinned.	‘You’re	a	poor	substitute	for	Sally,	but	the	truth	is	I’ve	got	nothing	better	to	do.’46
‘D AMN,	DAMN,	DAMN ’	caused	Karl	to	come	up	from	the	kitchen	and	try	to	find	out	what	the	problem	was.
He	arrived	just	in	time	to	see	the	two	boys	disappearing	out	of	the	front	door.	He	ran	across	the	hall	and
out	on	to	the	pavement,	but	could	only	watch	as	the	orange	MG	pulled	away	from	the	kerb,	with	Sebastian
behind	the	wheel.
‘Mr	Bruno!’	shouted	Karl	at	the	top	of	his	voice,	but	neither	head	turned,	because	Sebastian	had
switched	on	the	radio	so	they	could	listen	to	the	latest	news	from	Wimbledon.	Karl	ran	out	into	the	middle
of	the	road	and	waved	his	arms	frantically,	but	the	MG	didn’t	slow	down.	He	sprinted	after	the	car	as	it
approached	a	green	traffic	light	at	the	end	of	the	road.
‘Turn	red!’	he	screamed,	and	it	did,	but	not	before	Sebastian	had	swung	left	and	begun	to	accelerate
away	towards	Hyde	Park	Corner.	Karl	had	to	accept	that	they’d	escaped.	Was	there	a	possibility	that
Bruno	had	asked	to	be	dropped	off	somewhere,	before	Clifton	drove	on	to	Cambridge?	After	all,	wasn’t
he	meant	to	be	taking	his	girlfriend	to	the	cinema	that	afternoon?	It	was	not	a	risk	Karl	could	afford	to
take.
He	turned	back	and	ran	towards	the	house,	trying	to	remember	where	Mr	Martinez	was	meant	to	be	that
day.	He	knew	he	would	be	spending	the	afternoon	watching	the	women’s	final	at	Wimbledon,	but	wait,
Karl	recalled	he	had	an	earlier	appointment	in	the	City,	so	it	was	possible	he	might	still	be	at	the	office.	A
man	who	didn’t	believe	in	God	prayed	that	he	hadn’t	already	left	for	Wimbledon.
He	charged	through	the	open	door,	grabbed	the	phone	in	the	hall	and	dialled	the	office	number.	A	few
moments	later	Don	Pedro’s	secretary	came	on	the	line.
‘I	need	to	speak	to	the	boss,	urgently,	urgently,’	he	repeated.
‘But	Mr	Martinez	and	Diego	left	for	Wimbledon	a	few	minutes	ago.’
‘Seb,	I	need	to	discuss	something	with	you	that’s	been	worrying	me	for	some	time.’
‘Why	I	think	it’s	unlikely	that	Sally	will	turn	up	tomorrow?’
‘No,	it’s	far	more	serious	than	that,’	said	Bruno.	Although	Sebastian	detected	a	change	of	tone	in	his
friend’s	voice,	he	couldn’t	turn	to	look	at	him	more	closely,	while	he	attempted	to	negotiate	Hyde	Park
Corner	for	the	first	time.
‘It’s	nothing	I	can	put	my	finger	on,	but	since	you’ve	been	in	London,	I’ve	had	a	feeling	my	father’s
been	avoiding	you.’
‘But	that	doesn’t	make	any	sense.	After	all,	it	was	he	who	suggested	I	join	you	at	Wimbledon,’
Sebastian	reminded	him	as	they	headed	up	Park	Lane.
‘I	know,	and	it	was	also	Pa’s	idea	that	you	borrow	my	MG	today.	I	just	wondered	if	anything	had
happened	when	you	were	in	Buenos	Aires	that	might	have	annoyed	him.’‘Not	that	I’m	aware	of,’	said	Sebastian	as	he	spotted	a	signpost	for	the	A1	and	moved	across	to	the
outside	lane.
‘And	I	still	can’t	work	out	why	your	father	travelled	halfway	round	the	world	to	see	you,	when	all	he
had	to	do	was	pick	up	a	phone.’
‘I	meant	to	ask	him	the	same	question,	but	he	was	preoccupied,	preparing	for	his	latest	book	tour	to
America.	When	I	raised	the	subject	with	my	mother,	she	acted	dumb.	And	I	can	tell	you	one	thing	about
Mama,	she	ain’t	dumb.’
‘And	another	thing	I	don’t	understand	is	why	you	remained	in	Buenos	Aires	when	you	could	have	flown
back	to	England	with	your	pa.’
‘Because	I	promised	your	father	that	I’d	deliver	a	large	crate	to	Southampton,	and	I	didn’t	want	to	let
him	down	after	all	the	trouble	he’d	gone	to.’
‘That	must	have	been	the	statue	I	saw	lying	on	the	lawn	at	Shillingford.	But	that	only	adds	to	the
mystery.	Why	would	my	father	ask	you	to	bring	a	statue	back	from	Argentina,	put	it	up	for	auction	and	then
buy	it	himself?’
‘I’ve	no	idea.	I	signed	the	release	forms	as	he	asked	me	to,	and	once	Sotheby’s	had	picked	up	the	crate,
I	travelled	down	to	Bristol	with	my	parents.	Why	the	third	degree?	I	only	did	exactly	what	your	father
asked	me	to	do.’
‘Because	yesterday	a	man	came	to	visit	Papa	at	the	house,	and	I	overheard	him	mention	the	name
Barrington.’
Sebastian	came	to	a	halt	at	the	next	traffic	light.	‘Do	you	have	any	idea	who	the	man	was?’
‘No,	I’ve	never	seen	him	before,	but	I	did	hear	my	father	call	him	“major”.’
‘This	is	a	public	announcement,’	said	a	voice	over	the	loudspeaker.	The	crowd	fell	silent,	even	though
Miss	Gibson	was	about	to	serve	for	the	first	set.	‘Would	Mr	Martinez	please	report	to	the	secretary’s
office	immediately?’
Don	Pedro	didn’t	react	at	once,	and	then	he	rose	slowly	from	his	place,	and	said,	‘Something	must	have
gone	wrong.’	Without	another	word,	he	began	to	barge	his	way	past	the	seated	spectators	towards	the
nearest	exit,	with	Diego	only	a	pace	behind.	Once	Don	Pedro	had	reached	the	gangway,	he	asked	a
programme	seller	where	the	secretary’s	office	was.
‘It’s	that	large	building	with	the	green	roof,	sir,’	said	the	young	corporal,	pointing	to	his	right.	‘You
can’t	miss	it.’
Don	Pedro	walked	quickly	down	the	steps	and	out	of	Centre	Court,	but	Diego	had	overtaken	him	long
before	he	reached	the	exit.	Diego	quickened	his	pace	and	headed	towards	the	large	building	that
dominated	the	skyline.	He	occasionally	glanced	back	to	make	sure	his	father	wasn’t	too	far	behind.	When
he	spotted	a	uniformed	official	standing	by	a	set	of	double	doors,	he	slowed	down	and	shouted,	‘Where’s
the	secretary’s	office?’
‘Third	door	on	the	left,	sir.’
Diego	didn’t	slow	down	again	until	he	saw	the	words	Club	Secretary	printed	on	a	door.
When	he	opened	it,	he	came	face	to	face	with	a	man	wearing	a	smart	purple	and	green	jacket.
‘My	name	is	Martinez.	You	just	called	for	me	on	the	tannoy.’
‘Yes,	sir.	A	Mr	Karl	Ramirez	phoned	and	asked	if	you	would	ring	him	at	home	immediately.	He
stressed	that	it	couldn’t	be	more	important.’
Diego	grabbed	the	phone	on	the	secretary’s	desk	and	was	dialling	his	home	number	when	his	father
came	charging	through	the	door,	his	cheeks	flushed.
‘What’s	the	emergency?’	he	demanded	between	breaths.‘I	don’t	know	yet.	I	only	have	instructions	to	ring	Karl	at	home.’
Don	Pedro	seized	the	phone	when	he	heard	the	words,	‘Is	that	you,	Mr	Martinez?’
‘Yes,	it	is,’	he	said,	and	listened	carefully	to	what	Karl	had	to	say.
‘What’s	happened?’	said	Diego,	trying	to	remain	calm,	although	his	father	had	turned	ashen	white	and
was	clinging	to	the	edge	of	the	secretary’s	desk.
‘Bruno’s	in	the	car.’
‘I’m	going	to	have	it	out	with	my	father	when	I	get	back	this	evening,’	said	Bruno.	‘After	all,	what	can	you
possibly	have	done	to	annoy	him,	if	you	only	carried	out	his	instructions?’
‘I’ve	no	idea,’	said	Sebastian	as	he	took	the	first	exit	off	the	roundabout	on	to	the	A1	and	merged	with
the	traffic	travelling	up	the	dual	carriageway.	He	pressed	his	foot	down	on	the	accelerator	and	enjoyed	the
sensation	of	the	wind	blowing	through	his	hair.
‘It	could	be	that	I’m	overreacting,’	said	Bruno,	‘but	I’d	prefer	to	get	this	mystery	sorted	out.’
‘If	the	major	is	someone	called	Fisher,’	said	Sebastian,	‘then	I	can	tell	you,	even	you	won’t	be	able	to
sort	it	out.’
‘I	don’t	understand.	Who	the	hell	is	Fisher?’
‘He	was	the	Conservative	candidate	who	stood	against	my	uncle	at	the	last	election.	Don’t	you
remember?	I	told	you	all	about	him.’
‘Was	he	the	chap	who	tried	to	cheat	your	uncle	out	of	the	election	by	fixing	the	vote?’
‘That’s	him,	and	he	also	tried	to	destabilize	Barrington	Shipping	by	buying	and	selling	the	company’s
shares	whenever	they	were	under	any	pressure.	And	it	might	not	have	helped	that	when	the	chairman
finally	got	rid	of	him,	my	mother	took	his	place	on	the	board.’
‘But	why	would	my	father	have	anything	to	do	with	a	creep	like	that?’
‘It’s	possible	that	it	may	not	even	be	Fisher,	in	which	case	we’re	both	overreacting.’
‘Let’s	hope	you’re	right.	But	I	still	think	we	should	keep	our	eyes	and	ears	open	just	in	case	either	of	us
picks	up	anything	that	might	explain	the	mystery.’
‘Good	idea.	Because	one	thing’s	for	certain,	I	don’t	want	to	get	on	the	wrong	side	of	your	father.’
‘And	even	if	one	of	us	does	find	out	that	for	some	reason	there’s	bad	feeling	between	our	two	families,
it	doesn’t	mean	that	we	have	to	become	involved.’
‘I	couldn’t	agree	more,’	said	Sebastian	as	the	speedometer	climbed	to	sixty,	another	new	experience.
‘How	many	set	books	did	your	tutor	expect	you	to	have	read	by	the	beginning	of	term?’	he	asked	as	he
moved	into	the	outside	lane	to	overtake	three	coal	trucks	driving	in	convoy.
‘He	recommended	about	a	dozen,	but	I	got	the	impression	that	I	wasn’t	expected	to	read	all	of	them	by
the	first	day	of	term.’
‘I	don’t	think	I’ve	read	a	dozen	books	in	my	life,’	said	Sebastian	as	he	passed	the	first	of	the	lorries.
But	he	had	to	brake	sharply	when	the	driver	of	the	middle	lorry	suddenly	pulled	out	and	began	to	overtake
the	one	in	front.	Just	at	the	point	when	it	looked	as	if	the	driver	would	pass	the	front	lorry	and	return	to	the
inside	lane,	Sebastian	glanced	in	his	rear-view	mirror	to	see	that	the	third	lorry	had	also	moved	into	the
outside	lane.
The	lorry	in	front	of	Sebastian	inched	its	way	forward	allowing	it	to	draw	up	alongside	the	lorry	that
was	still	on	the	inside	lane.	Sebastian	checked	his	rear-view	mirror	again,	and	began	to	feel	nervous
when	he	saw	that	the	lorry	behind	him	appeared	to	be	closing	in.
Bruno	swung	round	and	waved	his	arms	furiously	at	the	man	driving	the	lorry	behind	them,	while
shouting	at	the	top	of	his	voice,	‘Get	back!’
The	expressionless	driver	just	leant	on	his	steering	wheel	as	his	lorry	continued	to	move	closer	andcloser,	despite	the	fact	that	the	lorry	in	front	still	hadn’t	quite	overtaken	the	one	that	remained	in	the	inside
lane.
‘For	God’s	sake,	get	a	move	on!’	screamed	Sebastian,	pressing	the	palm	of	his	hand	firmly	on	the	horn,
although	he	was	aware	that	the	driver	in	front	wouldn’t	be	able	to	hear	a	word	he	was	saying.	When	he
looked	into	the	rear-view	mirror	again,	he	was	horrified	to	see	that	the	lorry	behind	him	was	now	no
more	than	a	few	inches	from	his	rear	bumper.	The	lorry	in	front	still	hadn’t	progressed	enough	to	move
back	into	the	inside	lane,	which	would	have	allowed	Sebastian	to	accelerate	away.	Bruno	was	now
waving	frantically	at	the	lorry	driver	on	their	left,	but	the	driver	maintained	a	constant	speed.	He	could
easily	have	taken	his	foot	off	the	accelerator	and	allowed	them	to	slip	into	the	safety	of	the	inside	lane,	but
he	didn’t	once	glance	in	their	direction.
Sebastian	tightened	his	grip	on	the	steering	wheel	when	the	lorry	behind	him	touched	his	rear	bumper
and	nudged	the	little	MG	forward,	sending	its	number	plate	flying	high	into	the	air.	Sebastian	tried	to
advance	a	couple	more	feet,	but	he	couldn’t	go	any	faster	without	running	into	the	front	lorry	and	being
squeezed	between	the	two	of	them	like	a	concertina.
A	few	seconds	later	they	were	propelled	forward	a	second	time	as	the	lorry	behind	them	drove	into	the
back	of	the	MG	with	considerably	more	force,	pushing	it	to	within	a	foot	of	the	lorry	in	front.	It	was	only
when	the	rear	lorry	hit	them	a	third	time	that	Bruno’s	words	Are	you	certain	you’re	making	the	right
decision?	flashed	into	Sebastian’s	mind.	He	glanced	across	at	Bruno	who	was	now	clinging	on	to	the
dashboard	with	both	hands.
‘They’re	trying	to	kill	us,’	he	screamed.	‘For	God’s	sake,	Seb,	do	something!’
Sebastian	looked	helplessly	across	at	the	southbound	lanes	to	see	a	steady	stream	of	vehicles	heading
in	the	opposite	direction.
When	the	lorry	in	front	began	to	slow	down,	he	knew	that	if	they	were	to	have	any	hope	of	surviving,	he
had	to	make	a	decision,	and	make	it	quickly.
It	was	the	tutor	of	admissions	who	was	given	the	unenviable	task	of	having	to	phone	the	boy’s	father,	to	let
him	know	that	his	son	had	been	killed	in	a	tragic	motor	car	accident.
